UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
FORM 10-K(Mark One)
☒    Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934For the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025
OR
☐    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934For the transition period from _________ to __________
Commission File Number 0-21184
 
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED(Exact Name of Registrant as Speciﬁed in Its Charter)
Delaware 86-0629024(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization) (IRS Employer Identiﬁcation No.)
2355 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ  85224-6199(Address of Principal Executive Oﬃces, Including Zip Code)
(480) 792-7200(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class  Trading Symbol Name of Each Exchange on Which RegisteredCommon Stock, $0.001 par value per share MCHP NASDAQ Stock Market LLC(Nasdaq Global Select Market)
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/20th interest in a share of7.50% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.001 parvalue per share MCHPP NASDAQ Stock Market LLC(Nasdaq Global Select Market)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as deﬁned in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
☒Yes ☐No
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to ﬁle reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
☐Yes ☒No
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has ﬁled all reports required to be ﬁled by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to ﬁle such reports), and (2) has been subject to such ﬁling requirements for the past 90 days.
☒Yes ☐No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§229.405 ofthis chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such ﬁles).
☒Yes ☐No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated ﬁler, an accelerated ﬁler, a non-accelerated ﬁler, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company.See deﬁnitions of "large accelerated ﬁler," "accelerated ﬁler," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:
Large accelerated ﬁler ☒ Accelerated ﬁler ☐ Non-accelerated ﬁler ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐ Emerging growth company ☐ 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised ﬁnancialaccounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has ﬁled a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the eﬀectiveness of its internal control over ﬁnancial reportingunder Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting ﬁrm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the ﬁnancial statements of the registrant included in the ﬁling reﬂect the correctionof an error to previously issued ﬁnancial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’sexecutive oﬃcers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as deﬁned in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
☐Yes ☒No
Aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-aﬃliates as of September 30, 2024 based upon the closing price of the common stock as reportedby the NASDAQ Global Market on such date was approximately $42.2 billion.
Number of shares of Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share, outstanding as of May 15, 2025: 539,399,446 shares
Documents Incorporated by ReferenceDocument Part of Form 10-KAnnual Report on Form 10-K for the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2024 IIProxy Statement for the 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders(will be ﬁled within 120 days after the end of the ﬁscal year to which this report relates) III
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-K
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PART I
Item 1. Business 5Item 1A. Risk Factors 13Item 1B. Unresolved Staﬀ Comments 40Item 1C. Cybersecurity 40Item 2. Properties 43Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 44Item 6. [Reserved] 45Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 46Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 60Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 60Item 9B. Other Information 61Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 61
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Oﬃcers and Corporate Governance 62Item 11. Executive Compensation 62Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneﬁcial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 62Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 63Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 63
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 64Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 64Exhibit Index 65Signatures 70
Power of Attorney 71
2
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESDeﬁned Terms
Term Deﬁnition4.333% 2023 Notes 2023 Senior Unsecured Notes, matured on June 1, 20232.670% 2023 Notes 2023 Senior Unsecured Notes, matured on September 1, 20230.972% 2024 Notes 2024 Senior Unsecured Notes, matured on February 15, 20240.983% 2024 Notes 2024 Senior Unsecured Notes, matured on September 1, 20244.250% 2025 Notes 2025 Senior Unsecured Notes, maturing on September 1, 20254.900% 2028 Notes 2028 Senior Unsecured Notes, maturing on March 15, 20285.050% 2029 Notes 2029 Senior Unsecured Notes, maturing on March 15, 20295.050% 2030 Notes 2030 Senior Unsecured Notes, maturing on February 15, 20302015 Senior Convertible Debt 2015 Senior Convertible Debt, matured on February 15, 20252017 Senior Convertible Debt 2017 Senior Convertible Debt, maturing on February 15, 20272020 Senior Convertible Debt 2020 Senior Convertible Debt, matured on November 15, 20242024 Senior Convertible Debt 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, maturing on June 1, 20302017 Junior Convertible Debt 2017 Junior Convertible Debt which was fully settled in May 2023
2025 Term Loan Facility $750.0 million term loan facility created pursuant to the First Incremental Term Loan Amendment, dated as of August 31, 2023, asfurther amended by the Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2024 whichwas fully repaid in December 2024ASU Accounting Standards Update
ASU 2020-06 ASU 2020-06 - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entity's OwnEquityCEMs Client engagement managersCHIPS Act CHIPS and Science Act of 2022Commercial Paper Short-term unsecured promissory notes, of up to $2.75 billion outstanding at any one time
Convertible Debt 2015 Senior Convertible Debt, 2017 Senior Convertible Debt, 2020 Senior Convertible Debt, 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, and 2017Junior Convertible Debt prior to the May 2023 settlement
Credit Agreement Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2021, among the Company, as borrower, the lenders from timeto time party thereto, and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, as amended by the Second Amended and RestatedCredit Agreement, dated as of March 25, 2025Depositary Shares Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/20th interest in a share of Series A Preferred StockEAR Export Administration RegulationEEPROM Electrically erasable programmable read only memoryEERAM Electrically erasable random access memoryESEs Embedded solutions engineersESG Environmental, social and governanceEURIBOR Euro Interbank Oﬀered RateExchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amendedFASB Financial Accounting Standards BoardFPGA Field-programmable gate arrayLTSAs Long-term supply agreementsOEMs Original equipment manufacturersPSUs RSUs with a market condition or a performance condition, and a service conditionR&D Research and development
Revolving Credit Facility $2.75 billion revolving credit facility created pursuant to the Credit Agreement, reduced to $2.25 billion pursuant to the SecondAmended and Restated Credit AgreementRF Radio frequencyROU Right-of-useRSUs Restricted stock unitsSEC U.S. Securities and Exchange CommissionSenior Credit Facilities Revolving Credit Facility and 2025 Term Loan Facility
Senior Indebtedness Revolving Credit Facility, 2025 Term Loan Facility, Commercial Paper, 4.333% 2023 Notes, 2.670% 2023 Notes, 0.972% 2024 Notes,0.983% 2024 Notes, 4.250% 2025 Notes, 4.900% 2028 Notes, 5.050% 2029 Notes, and 5.050% 2030 Notes
Senior Notes 2.670% 2023 Notes, 0.972% 2024 Notes, 0.983% 2024 Notes, 4.250% 2025 Notes, 4.900% 2028 Notes, 5.050% 2029 Notes, and5.050% 2030 Notes
(1)
3
Series A Preferred Stock 7.50% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock $0.001 par valueSiC Silicon CarbideSOFR Secured Overnight Financing RateSONIA Sterling Overnight Index AverageSRAM Static random access memoryTCJA Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017U.S. GAAP U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
Certain terms used within this Form 10-K are deﬁned in the above table.(1) 
4
Table of Contents
PART I
This Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy and future ﬁnancialperformance and those statements identiﬁed under "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements."  Our actual results could diﬀer materially from the results described in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those setforth under "Item 1A. Risk Factors," beginning below at page 13, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Although we believe that the matters reﬂected in the forward-lookingstatements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-lookingstatements.  We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. In this Form 10-K, "we," "us," "our," and "Microchip" each refers toMicrochip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries.  
Item 1. Business
Overview We develop, manufacture and sell smart, connected and secure embedded control solutions used by our customers for a wide variety of applications. Our strategic focusincludes general purpose and specialized 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit mixed-signal microcontroller, microprocessors, analog, FPGA, and memory products. In July 2024, we entered the64-bit mixed-signal microprocessor market furthering our expansion beyond 32-bit architecture. With over 35 years of technology leadership, our broad product portfolio oﬀers aTotal System Solution (TSS) for our customers that can provide a large portion of the silicon requirements in their applications. TSS is a combination of hardware, software andservices which help our customers increase their revenue, reduce their costs and manage their risks compared to other solutions. Our synergistic product portfolio empowersdisruptive growth trends, including AI/ML, data centers, edge computing and Internet of Things (IoT), E-mobility, networking and connectivity, and sustainability in key end marketssuch as automotive, aerospace and defense, communications, consumer appliances, data centers and computing, and industrial.
Industry Background Competitive pressures require OEMs to expand product functionality and provide diﬀerentiation while maintaining or reducing cost.  To address these requirements,manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based embedded control systems that enable them to: 
• diﬀerentiate their products• replace less eﬃcient electromechanical control devices• reduce the number of components in their system• add product functionality• reduce the system level energy consumption• make systems safer to operate• reduce the consumption of natural resources• add security to their products• decrease time to market for their products• signiﬁcantly reduce product cost
Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including:
• actuators• applications requiring touch buttons, touch screens and graphical user interfaces• automotive access control• automotive comfort, safety, information and entertainment applications• avionics• communication infrastructure systems• consumer electronics• data center solutions• defense and military hardware• electric vehicles• handheld tools• home and building automation• industrial automation
5
Table of Contents
• large and small home appliances• medical devices• motor controls• portable computers and accessories• power supplies• residential and commercial security systems• robotics• routers and video surveillance systems• satellites• smart home, IoT and AI/ML edge devices• smart meters and energy monitoring• storage and server systems• touch control• wireless communication
Embedded control systems typically incorporate a mixed-signal microcontroller, microprocessor or FPGA as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component.  A mixed-signalmicrocontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit, often with on-board non-volatile program memory for program storage, random accessmemory for data storage and various analog and digital input/output peripheral capabilities.  In addition to the mixed-signal microcontroller, a complete embedded control systemoften incorporates application-speciﬁc software, various analog, mixed-signal, timing, connectivity, security and non-volatile memory components such as EEPROMs and Flashmemory. Mixed-signal microcontrollers are primarily available in 8-bit through 32-bit architectures. In July 2024, we entered the 64-bit mixed-signal microprocessor market furthering ourexpansion beyond 32-bit architecture. 8-bit mixed-signal microcontrollers remain very cost-eﬀective and easy to use for a wide range of high-volume embedded control applicationsand, as a result, continue to represent a signiﬁcant portion of the overall mixed-signal microcontroller market.  16-bit and 32-bit mixed-signal microcontrollers provide higherperformance and functionality, and are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. FPGAs are programmable integrated circuits that are used to implementcomplex logic functions and can be re-programmed at any time, allowing for multiple implementations and revisions during or after the customer system is manufactured. Someversions of FPGAs also include a mixed-signal microcontroller or microprocessor core to provide additional system on chip functionality to compute intensive tasks. Microprocessorsintegrate 32-bit (or above) central processing units (CPUs) with various high performance peripherals, such as communications and graphics, and execute code from externalmemory, typically dynamic random access memory. 64-bit microprocessors oﬀer even greater computational power and are often utilized in applications requiring advancedprocessing capabilities, such as data-intensive tasks and sophisticated system operations such as Linux.
Our Products
Our strategic focus is on providing cost-eﬀective embedded control solutions that also oﬀer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, widevoltage range operation, mixed-signal integration, and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-eﬀective integration of our solutions by our customers in their endproducts.
Mixed-signal Microcontrollers
We oﬀer a broad family of proprietary general purpose mixed-signal microcontroller products, with signiﬁcant analog and mixed-signal functionality incorporated within them,which are marketed under multiple brand names.  We believe that our mixed-signal microcontroller product families provide leading function and performance characteristics in theworldwide market. We target the 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit mixed-signal microcontroller and 32-bit embedded mixed-signal microprocessor markets.  In July 2024, we entered the 64-bit mixed-signal microprocessor market. We also oﬀer specialized mixed-signal microcontrollers for automotive, industrial, computing, communications, lighting, power supplies,motor control, human machine interface, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity applications. We leverage our circuit design, process technologies, development tools, applications knowledge, and manufacturing experiences to enable our customers to implement variousembedded control functions in their end systems with our mixed-signal microcontrollers. 
6
Table of Contents
Analog Our analog product line consists of several families including power management, linear, mixed-signal, high voltage, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, RF,drivers, safety, security, timing, USB, ethernet, wireless and other interface products.   We market and sell our analog product line into our mixed-signal microcontroller, microprocessor and FPGA customer base, and to customers who use mixed-signalmicrocontrollers and FPGA products from other suppliers and to customers who use other products that may not ﬁt our traditional mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGA and memoryproducts customer base. Other
Our other product line includes FPGA products, royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees forengineering services, memory products, timing systems, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application speciﬁc integrated circuits,and products for aerospace applications.
Our portfolio of non-volatile FPGAs are recognized for their low power, high security and extended reliability. We market and sell our FPGA products and related solutions into abroad range of applications within the industrial, automotive, defense, aviation, space and communications markets.
Our technology licensing business generates license fees and royalties associated with technology licenses for the use of our SuperFlash® embedded ﬂash and othertechnologies. We also generate fees for engineering services related to these technologies. We license our Non-Volatile Memory technologies to foundries, integrated devicemanufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of their advanced mixed-signal microcontroller products, gate array, RF, analog andneuromorphic compute products that require embedded non-volatile memory.
Our memory products consist of EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial SRAM memories and EERAMs. Serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories, SerialSRAMs and EERAMs have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small footprint devices. We sell our memory products primarily into the embedded controlmarket, complementing our mixed-signal microcontroller oﬀerings.
Development Tools We oﬀer a comprehensive set of low-cost and easy-to-learn application development tools.  These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program our mixed-signalmicrocontroller, FPGA and microprocessor products for speciﬁc applications and, we believe, they are an important factor for facilitating design wins. Our family of development tools for our mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGA and microprocessor products range from entry-level systems, which include an assembler or acompiler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware, to fully conﬁgured systems that provide in-circuit emulation capability.  We also oﬀer a complete suite of compilers,software code conﬁgurators and simulators. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning andtools as they migrate to future mixed-signal microcontroller devices in our portfolio.
Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools that support our mixed-signal microcontroller and microprocessor product architectures,including an extensive amount of third-party tool suppliers whose products support our mixed-signal microcontroller architectures. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of development tools from Microchip as well as from third-party development tool partners by an increasing number of productdesigners will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products.  These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands ofapplication-speciﬁc products from our standard mixed-signal microcontrollers.
Manufacturing Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe, assembly and test.  The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an importantcomponent of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control, resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded controlindustry.  By owning wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical techniques (such as
7
Table of Contents
statistical process control, designed experiments and wafer level monitoring), we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.  Direct control over manufacturingresources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.  This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and assembly and testing proﬁt margin.We outsource a signiﬁcant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties. We comply with several quality systems, including: ISO9001 (2015 version), IATF16949 (2016version), AS9100 (2016 version), and TL9000.
Refer to "Item 2. Properties" for further information regarding the location and principal operations of our manufacturing facilities.
Wafer Fabrication On March 3, 2025, we announced the closure of our Fab 2 manufacturing operations. The Fab 2 closure was completed in May 2025 and the Fab 2 facility and equipment arecurrently available for sale. With our inventory levels being high and having ample capacity in place, we announced our decision to close Fab 2, which we expect will generate annualcash savings of approximately $90 million. All of the process technologies will be transferred from Fab 2 to Fab 4 and Fab 5 factories and many such technologies are already runningin Fab 4 and Fab 5, both of which have ample clean room space for expansion. Fab 4, located in Gresham, Oregon, currently produces 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.13 microns to 0.5 microns manufacturing processes.  While select investments arestill being made, in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2024, we paused our multi-year $800 million expansion and capital equipment investment plan at Fab 4 through ﬁscal 2026. We planto resume our expansion eﬀorts to increase Fab 4's capacity as the business outlook improves. 
Fab 5, located in Colorado Springs, Colorado, currently manufactures discrete and specialty products in addition to a lower volume of a diversiﬁed set of standard products on 6-inch wafers. In February 2023, we announced our plan to invest $880 million over the next several years to expand our silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon production capacity, includingthe production of 8-inch wafers, at our Fab 5 facility. While select investments are still being made to reorganize our manufacturing capacity, in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2024, wepaused our expansion activity through ﬁscal 2026. We plan to resume our expansion eﬀorts as the business outlook improves.
We believe the closure of Fab 2 and the combined capacity of Fab 4 and Fab 5 will allow us to respond to future demand for internally fabricated products with incrementalcapital expenditures. Consistent with the macroeconomic environment during ﬁscal 2025, our capacity expansion activity at Fab 4 and Fab 5 remained paused and we have reducedour planned capital investments through ﬁscal 2026.
In addition to the Fab 2 closure, which commenced in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2025, we reduced headcount at Fab 4, Fab 5 and our backend manufacturing facility in thePhilippines. We expect approximately $90 million in annual savings related to the closure of Fab 2, plus approximately $25 million in annual savings from the temporarily reducedcompensation costs in Fab 4 and Fab 5.
As a result of our prior acquisition activity, we acquired several smaller wafer fabrication facilities, which utilize older technologies that are appropriate for the discrete productsthey manufacture. We currently plan to continue to operate these fabrication facilities with modest investment to keep them operational and accommodate areas of growingdemand.
We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs.  We believe that our ability to successfully transition to moreadvanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive.
In ﬁscal 2025, approximately 36% of our sales came from products produced at our own wafer fabrication facilities that are located in the U.S. There are beneﬁts to having ourown U.S. wafer fabrication facilities such as increased IP protection and security, increased supply chain resilience and the ability to manage production costs. We augment ourinternal manufacturing capabilities by outsourcing a signiﬁcant portion of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries, including all of our 300mm waferrequirements and some of our 200mm and 150mm specialty process technologies. In ﬁscal 2025, approximately 64% of our sales came from products that were produced at outsidewafer foundries. Diversifying our wafer production geographically can help prevent disruptions that may be caused by geopolitical tensions, tariﬀs or natural disasters.
8
Table of Contents
Assembly and Test We perform product assembly and test at various facilities located around the world. During ﬁscal 2025, we increased capabilities at our Thailand and Philippines facilities tosupport more technologies by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment. During ﬁscal 2025, approximately 67% of both our assemblyrequirements and our test requirements were performed in internal facilities.  We use third-party assembly and test contractors for the balance of our assembly and testrequirements. We plan to continue to invest in assembly and test equipment to increase our internal capacity capabilities and transition certain outsourced assembly and testcapacity to our internal facilities.
General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations Due to the high ﬁxed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have signiﬁcant positive eﬀects on our gross proﬁt and overalloperating results.  Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities.  Our manufacturing yields areprimarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and eﬀective use of our manufacturing facilities andequipment.  Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results.  The manufacture of integrated circuits,particularly non-volatile, erasable complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  Theseprocesses are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance ofour manufacturing personnel and equipment.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Ouroperating results will suﬀer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels.
Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively shortdelivery schedules.  In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a signiﬁcant work-in-process and ﬁnished goods inventory. Refer to Note 3 for asummary of our long-lived assets, consisting of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets, by geography. We have many suppliers of raw materials and subcontractors that provide our various materials and service needs. We generally seek to have multiple sources of supply for ourraw materials and services, but, in some cases, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers.
Sales and Distribution General We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors to approximately 109,000 unique customers. Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia.  We currently maintain sales and technicalsupport centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets.  We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of theembedded control market.  Many of our CEMs, ESEs, and sales managers have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technologyenvironments.  We believe that the technical and business knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products.  The primary mission of our ESEteam is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team.  ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars andworkshops in major cities around the world or through online webcasts. Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees. For information regarding our revenue, results of operations, and total assets for each of our last three ﬁscal years, refer to our ﬁnancial statements included in this Form 10-K.
9
Table of Contents
Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.  We believe that distributors provide an eﬀective means of reachingthis broad and diverse customer base.  We believe that customers recognize us for our products and brand name and use distributors as an eﬀective supply channel. In ﬁscal 2025, we derived 45% of our net sales through distributors compared to 55% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. In ﬁscal 2024, we derived 47% ofour net sales through distributors compared to 53% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, whichmade up 10% and 12% of our net sales, in ﬁscal 2025 and in ﬁscal 2024, respectively, no distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advancenotice, with the exception of orders otherwise designated as non-cancellable.  The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce ourfuture net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.
 Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has historically been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domesticand international semiconductor companies, some of which have greater market recognition and greater ﬁnancial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than wehave with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.  We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied,cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China and Taiwan.  We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defendand protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis.
We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: 
• performance• analog, digital and mixed-signal functionality and level of functional integration• ﬁeld programmability• memory density• low power consumption• extended voltage ranges• reliability• security and functional safety• packaging alternatives• comprehensive suite of development tools
We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: 
• our broad product portfolio oﬀers a Total System Solutions through a combination of hardware, software and services• ease of use• functionality of application development systems• hardware, software and tool compatibility within product families to increase migration ﬂexibility• dependable delivery, quality and availability• technical and innovative service and support• time to market• total solution cost• reference design
We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but if we are unable to compete successfully in the future, our business could be harmed.
10
Table of Contents
Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates from 2025 through 2044.  We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applicationspending.  We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our semiconductor business.  While our intention is to continue to patent ourtechnology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and ourability to rapidly commercialize new and enhanced products.  As with any operating company, the scope and strength of our intellectual property assets, including our pending andexisting patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights may be insuﬃcient to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage.  Moreover, pursuingviolations of intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex challenge involving multinational patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. Further, the laws ofparticular foreign countries often fail to protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We have also entered into certain in-bound and outbound intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies and those licenses relate to semiconductorproducts and manufacturing processes.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers from time to time receive, and may continue to receive, demand lettersfrom third parties asserting infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights.  We diligently investigate all such notices and respond as we believe appropriate.  In mostcases we believe that we can obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, however, we cannot be certain that this would be the case, or that litigation or damagesfor any past infringement could be avoided. Licensees of our technology may become unable to pay, and have in the past and are currently disputing their obligations to pay usroyalties or fees. Litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, which could result in substantial costs and require signiﬁcant attention from management, has been and is expected tobe necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others.  The failure to obtain necessary licenses, the necessity ofengaging in defensive legal proceedings, or any negative results of these proceedings could harm our business.
Environmental Regulation We must comply with many diﬀerent federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gasesused in our products and manufacturing processes.  Our waste disposal programs in our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that ouractivities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. However, any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could result in an increase in capitalexpenditures such as acquiring costly equipment or other signiﬁcant expenses to comply with environmental regulations.  Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use,discharge and disposal of regulated substances could result in signiﬁcant future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations.  While we have not experienced any materially adverseeﬀects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, technological changes, or weather, our business and results of operations could suﬀer if for any reasonwe fail to control the storage or use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Human Capital Resources
Our Employees
We invest in our highly-skilled global workforce of approximately 19,400 people in accordance with our Guiding Value: employees are our greatest strength. We believe that ourculture, values, and organizational development and training programs provide a work environment where our employees are empowered and engaged to deliver the bestembedded control solutions to our customers.
Culture and Core Values
Before Microchip went public in 1993, Microchip created a cultural framework to unite its employees through shared workplace values, and to guide employees’ strategies,decisions, actions and job performance. Our culture is centered on a values-based, highly-empowered, continuous-improvement oriented approach. This corporate culturestrengthens our business, and enables us to fulﬁll our purpose. Our focus on communication aims to provide transparency among leadership, to promote trust among employees,and is a critical part of Microchip’s culture.
11
Table of Contents
Our culture is important to our employees, and is a key reason why we have a signiﬁcant number of employees with long tenure with Microchip that have grown from individualcontributors in the early stages of their careers into senior leadership positions today. This long tenure among our employee-base results in deep relationships and trust being builtamong colleagues, retention of our knowledge base, and continuation of our culture. More information on our Guiding Values can be found at www.microchip.com/en-us/about/investors/investor-information/mission-statement.
We promote employee adoption of our culture through a number of methods including training, mentorship, values-based performance reviews, company-wide quarterlymeetings, town hall meetings with the President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer and other executive team members, and an open-door policy of communication where employees areencouraged to interact directly with management. To assess and improve employee engagement, we conduct our annual employee engagement survey, which is administered in amanner that allows employees to respond conﬁdentially. The survey solicits feedback on a variety of factors, including engagement, culture, leadership, continuous improvement,collaboration, work environment, and ethics.
Training and Development
Microchip’s culture focuses on continuous improvement. We provide training on our culture, management skills, communication, technical skills, and personal improvement.Microchip also has a leadership program that provides for the growth and development of its future leaders. This program helps us develop leaders that serve as role models ofMicrochip culture, and support empowerment and open communication.
To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training courses, targeted development programs, mentoring and peer coaching, andongoing feedback. We have a library of live and on-demand learning experiences. We create learning paths focused on our most common development needs and regularly upgradeour oﬀerings to help ensure that our employees are exposed to current content. We oﬀer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational programs and advancedcertiﬁcations.
Compensation Programs
We strive to provide competitive pay and beneﬁts, that help meet the varying needs of our employees and encourage employees to be shareholders in Microchip through ourvarious equity incentive plans. Our total compensation package includes base pay, broad-based stock grants and bonuses, healthcare and retirement plans, employee stock purchaseplans, paid time oﬀ and family leave. Beneﬁt programs include 401(k) programs in the U.S., and statutory pension programs outside the U.S. Microchip has multiple equity programsin place including restricted stock unit awards and employee stock purchase plans that align employee interests with those of our shareholders.
Information About our Executive Oﬃcers
The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive oﬃcers as of April 30, 2025:
Name Age PositionSteve Sanghi 69 Executive Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and PresidentRichard J. Simoncic 61 Chief Operating OﬃcerJ. Eric Bjornholt 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OﬃcerMathew B. Bunker 55 Senior Vice President, OperationsJoseph R. Krawczyk II 65 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Client Engagement
Mr. Sanghi was appointed as Executive Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and President in November 2024. He previously served as Chief Executive Oﬃcer from October1991 to March 2021, as Chair of the Board from October 1993 to March 2021 and August 2024 to November 2024, and as Executive Chair of the Board from March 2021 to August2024, and from November 2024 to present. He served as President from August 1990 to February 2016 and has served as a director since August 1990.  Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S.degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University. Mr. Sanghi servedon the Board of Directors of Myomo, Inc., a publicly traded commercial stage medical robotics company that oﬀers expanded mobility for those suﬀering from neurological disordersand upper-limb paralysis, from November 2016 through October 2019.  Mr. Sanghi served on the board of Mellanox Technologies Ltd., a publicly traded supplier of end-to-endEthernet and InﬁniBand intelligent interconnect solutions and services for servers, storage, and hyper-converged infrastructure, from February 2018 through April 2020. Mr. Sanghiwas elected to the Board of Directors of Impinj, Inc. in March 2021 and assumed the role of Board Chair in June 2022. Mr. Sanghi was elected to the Board of Directors of IntelCorporation in December 2024.
12
Table of Contents
Mr. Simoncic was promoted to Chief Operating Oﬃcer on April 1, 2024 and served as Executive Vice President Analog Power and Interface Business Unit from April 2023 to April2024; as Senior Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units from February 2019 to April 2023; and as Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units fromSeptember 1999 to February 2019. From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles.  Since joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held variousroles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems.  Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. Mr. Simoncicwas elected to the Board of Directors of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. in August 2024.
Mr. Bjornholt was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Oﬃcer since January 2009.  He hasserved in various ﬁnancial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995.  Mr. Bjornholt holds a Master's degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S.degree in Accounting from the University of Arizona.
Mr. Bunker was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Backend Operations and other backend manufacturing divisions since May 2007.He has been employed by Microchip since February 1993 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since May 2007.  Mr. Bunker holds a Master's degree in TechnologyManagement from University of Phoenix and a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University.
Mr. Krawczyk was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2022 and has served as Vice President of WW Client Engagement since May 2021. He served as Vice President of AsiaClient Engagement from 2006 to 2020. Since joining Microchip in September 1995, Mr. Krawczyk held various marketing and geographical sales roles.  Mr. Krawczyk holds a Master'sdegree in Business from St. Edward's University and a B.S. degree in Computer Technology from University of Southern Mississippi.
Available Information
Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989.  Our executive oﬃces are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com.  We post the following ﬁlings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically ﬁled with or furnished tothe SEC: 
• our annual report on Form 10-K• our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q• our current reports on Form 8-K• our proxy statement• any amendments to the above-listed reports ﬁled or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act
All of our SEC ﬁlings on our website are available free of charge.  The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.
Item 1A. Risk Factors When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors below, as well as the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and inother ﬁlings we make with the SEC. 
Risk Factor Summary
Risks Related to Our Business, Operations, and Industry
• impact of global economic conditions on our operating results, net sales and proﬁtability;• impact of economic conditions on the ﬁnancial viability and performance of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers;• impact of price increases, increased tariﬀs, raw material availability or other factors aﬀecting our suppliers;• dependence on wafer foundries and other contractors by our licensees and ourselves;• dependence on foreign sales, suppliers, and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks;• dependence on orders received and shipped in the same quarter, limited visibility to product shipments other than those shipped through our LTSAs;• intense competition in the markets we serve, leading to pricing pressures, reduced sales or market share;
13
Table of Contents
• ineﬀective utilization of our manufacturing capacity or failure to maintain manufacturing yields;• impact of seasonality and wide ﬂuctuations of supply and demand in the industry;• dependence on distributors;• ability to introduce new products on a timely basis;• business interruptions aﬀecting our operations or that of key vendors, licensees or customers;• technology licensing business exposes us to various risks;• the impact of the eﬀects of sustained adverse climate change on our operations;• reliance on sales into governmental projects, and compliance with associated regulations;• risks related to grants from, or tax arrangements with, governments, agencies and research organizations;• ability to realize anticipated beneﬁts from completed or future acquisitions or divestitures;• future impairments to goodwill or intangible assets;• our failure to maintain proper and eﬀective internal control and remediate future control deﬁciencies;• customer demands to implement business practices that are more stringent than legal requirements;• ability to attract and retain qualiﬁed personnel; and• the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits.
Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Products, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Litigation
• interruptions in and unauthorized access to our IT systems and security breaches or incidents impacting our systems, or data that we or our service providers maintainor otherwise process including, but not limited to, data belonging to us or our customers, suppliers, contractors or employees;• exposure of our customers' business and proprietary conﬁdential information due to security vulnerabilities of our products;• risks related to use of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI);• risks related to compliance with laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, and handling of government-regulated data (e.g., controlledunclassiﬁed information, classiﬁed data, export-controlled data);• risks related to legal proceedings, investigations or claims;• risks related to contractual relationships with our customers and suppliers; and• protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights.
Risks Related to Taxation, Laws and Regulations
• impact on our reported ﬁnancial results by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices;• the issuance of new export controls or trade sanctions, tariﬀs or other trade barriers, ﬁnes, restrictions or delays in our ability to export or import products, or increasecosts associated with the manufacture or transfer of products;• outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns;• exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations or unfavorable assessments from tax audits;• impact of the legislative and policy changes implemented globally by the current or future administrations;• impact of stringent environmental, climate change, conﬂict-free minerals and other regulations or customer demands;• failure to meet ESG expectations, standards or disclosure requirements;• impact regarding the responsible use of our technologies; and• requirement to fund our foreign pension plans.
Risks Related to Capitalization and Financial Markets
• impact of various factors on our future trading price of our common stock;• ﬂuctuations in the amount and timing of our common stock repurchases;• our ability to eﬀectively manage current or future debt;• our ability to generate suﬃcient cash ﬂows or obtain access to external ﬁnancing;• impact of conversion of our convertible debt, Depositary Shares, and Series A Preferred Stock on the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and market price ofour common stock; and• ﬂuctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
14
Table of Contents
Risks Related to Our Business, Operations, and Industry
Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may ﬂuctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and proﬁtability.
Our operating results are aﬀected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and proﬁtability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors thatmay aﬀect our operating results include:
• general economic, industry, public health or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally, including uncertain economic conditions in U.S., China and Europe,changes in tariﬀs, interest rates, persistent inﬂation or instability in the banking sector;• trade restrictions and increase in tariﬀs, including those on business in China, or focused on speciﬁc companies;• the level of order cancellations or push-outs due to uncertain economic conditions or other factors;• levels of inventories held by our customers and the customers of our distributors;• the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;• the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter, including the impact of product lead times;• disruptions in our business, our supply chain or our customers' businesses due to public health concerns (including viral outbreaks and pandemics), cybersecurityincidents, terrorist activity, armed conﬂict, war (including military conﬂict in the Middle East and Russia's invasion of Ukraine), worldwide oil prices and supply, ﬁres,natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;• changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market ﬂuctuations in the industries into which such products are sold;• availability of raw materials including rare earth minerals, supplies and equipment due to supply chain constraints, disruptions in transportation systems, traderestrictions, or other factors;• constrained availability from other electronic suppliers or disruptions in transit systems impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn mayadversely impact our sales to those customers;• our ability to continue to increase our factory capacity as needed to respond to changes in customer demand;• our ability to secure suﬃcient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;• increased costs and availability of raw materials, supplies, equipment, utilities, labor, and/or subcontracted services for wafers, assembly and test;• changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and ﬂuctuations in manufacturing yields;• changes or ﬂuctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;• changes in tax regulations in countries in which we do business;• new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices;• risk of excess and obsolete inventories;• competitive developments including pricing pressures;• unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;• our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs;• the level of sell-through of our products through distribution or resale;• our ability to realize the expected beneﬁts of our past or future acquisitions;• ﬂuctuations in our mix of product sales;• announcements of other signiﬁcant acquisitions by us or our competitors;• costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation, investigation or claims involving intellectual property, our acquisitions, customers or otherissues; and• property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our futureperformance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have anegative eﬀect on the price of our common stock. Uncertain global economic and public health conditions have caused and may in the future cause our operating results to ﬂuctuatesigniﬁcantly and make comparisons between periods less meaningful.
Our operating results may be adversely impacted by the ﬁnancial viability and performance of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers.
We regularly review the ﬁnancial viability and performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. Any downturn in global or regional economic conditions, as aresult of tariﬀs, high interest rates, high inﬂation, instability in the banking sector, the enactment of broad sanctions or tariﬀs by the U.S. or other countries, public health concerns,industry work stoppages, transit stoppages or other factors, may adversely impact their ﬁnancial viability. The ﬁnancial decline of a
15
Table of Contents
large licensee, customer, reseller or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our inability tocollect our accounts receivable balances, higher allowances for credit losses, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. Also, these parties may not comply with theircontractual commitments, or may interpret them diﬀerently than we do, which could lead to termination of their performance with little or no notice to us, which could limit ourability to mitigate our exposure. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent, ﬁles for bankruptcy, has business leverage, or favorable contractual terms, then our ability to recoverany losses suﬀered as a result of that counterparty's cessation of performance may be limited by their liquidity, the applicable laws, or their willingness to negotiate a resolution. Inthe event of such default or cessation of performance, we could incur signiﬁcant losses, which could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations, or ﬁnancialcondition.
We have various arrangements with ﬁnancial institutions for our cash deposits, and other banking activities, that subject us to risk if such institutions were to experienceﬁnancial or regulatory diﬃculties. As a result, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and cash equivalents due to failures of ﬁnancial institutions or other related parties.
We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs, increase prices, are impacted by increases in tariﬀs, orsuch raw materials, components or equipment become restricted or unavailable.
Our manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources for these supplies,but there may be a limited number of suppliers capable of meeting our standards.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion oursuppliers have told us they need more time to ﬁll our orders, that they cannot ﬁll certain orders, that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or parts, or thatthey are increasing prices. In particular, in ﬁscal 2023 and in ﬁscal 2022, we experienced increased prices at certain suppliers for certain materials required for production purposes.However, in ﬁscal 2024 and ﬁscal 2025, the pricing environment stabilized compared to the two prior ﬁscal years. An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lackof supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. The supplies necessary for our business could become more diﬃcult to obtain as worldwide use ofsemiconductors increases, or due to supply chain disruptions, transit disruptions, trade restrictions or political instability. Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due tomergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change our relationships with them. Also, the reduced availability of necessary labor, the application of sanctions,trade restrictions or tariﬀs by the U.S. or other countries or the impact of public health concerns, may adversely impact the industry supply chain. The U.S. has imposed additionaltariﬀs on imports, and certain countries have imposed retaliatory tariﬀs on imports that have the U.S. as their country of origin. For example, in March and April 2025, the U.Simposed tariﬀs on imports from China and other countries and foreign governments imposed tariﬀs on imports from the U.S. It is unclear what tariﬀs will apply to semiconductorsduring this time of change.
Additional tariﬀs imposed on components, raw materials, or equipment may increase our costs and have an adverse impact on our operating results in future periods. We mayalso incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariﬀs on our operations. We will attempt to mitigate the impact of those tariﬀs on our business but mayexperience an increase in operating costs, impaired sourcing ﬂexibility, and reduced demand for our products, resulting in reduced revenue.
Our customers may also be adversely aﬀected by the tariﬀs and other issues described above. The labor, supplies and equipment necessary for their businesses could becomemore diﬃcult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, reduced availability of labor, transit disruptions, consolidation in their supply chain, orsanctions, trade restrictions or tariﬀs or the impact of public health concerns that impair sourcing ﬂexibility or increase costs. If our customers are not able to produce their products,then their need for our products will decrease. Such interruptions of our customers’ businesses could harm our business.
We do not, nor have we historically, purchased signiﬁcant amounts of equipment from Russia, Belarus, or Ukraine. However, the semiconductor industry, and purchasers ofsemiconductors, use raw materials that are sourced from these regions, such as neon, palladium, cesium, rubidium, and nickel. If we, or our direct or indirect customers, are unableto obtain the requisite raw materials or components needed to manufacture products, our ability to manufacture products, or demand for our products, may be adversely impacted.This could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations or ﬁnancial condition. While there has been an adverse impact on the world’s palladium, neon,cesium, and rubidium supply chains, at this time, our supply chains have been able to meet our needs. While sales of our products into Russia, Belarus and Ukraine and to customersthat sell into these countries, have been negatively impacted by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, at this time, we have not experienced a material impact on our business, results ofoperations or ﬁnancial conditions. Further, because we do not support the actions of Russia against Ukraine, in March 2022 we stopped selling products to customers
16
Table of Contents
and distributors located in Russia and Belarus.
Additionally, certain materials are primarily available in a limited number of countries, including rare earth elements, minerals, and metals. Trade disputes, geopolitical tensions,economic circumstances, transit disruptions, political conditions, or public health issues, may limit our ability to obtain materials or equipment. Although rare earth and othermaterials are generally available from multiple suppliers, China is the predominant producer of certain of these materials. In April 2025, China imposed export restrictions on certainrare earth minerals. If China were to further restrict or stop exporting these materials or pressure other countries to do so, our suppliers' ability to obtain such supply may beconstrained and we may be unable to obtain suﬃcient quantities, or obtain supply in a timely manner, or at a commercially reasonable cost. Constrained supply of rare earthelements, minerals, and metals may restrict our ability to manufacture certain of our products and make it diﬃcult or impossible to compete with other semiconductor memorymanufacturers who are able to obtain suﬃcient quantities of these materials from China or other countries.
We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors, as are our SuperFlash and other licensees.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a signiﬁcant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. Speciﬁcally, during ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, approximately 64% of our net salescame from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. We also use several contractors for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. Speciﬁcally, duringﬁscal 2025, approximately 33% of our assembly requirements and 33% of our test requirements were performed by third-party contractors compared to approximately 41% of ourassembly requirements and 29% of our test requirements during ﬁscal 2024. Due to the amount of inventory of our products that we are holding, we have recently taken actions todecrease our capacity allocation from our wafer fabrication, assembly and test subcontractors. In the event that we need to increase capacity allocation from our wafer fabrication,assembly and test subcontractors in the future there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the necessary allocation of capacity from our wafer foundries and othercontractors, or that such capacity will be available on acceptable terms. As our manufacturing subcontractors move to more advanced process technologies over time, we may ﬁndthat they do not invest in some of the trailing edge process technologies on which a large portion of our products are manufactured. If this occurs, it may limit the amounts of netsales that we can achieve or require us to make signiﬁcant investments to be able to manufacture these products in our own facilities or at other foundries and assembly and testingcontractors. We expect that our reliance on third party contractors may increase over time as our business grows, and any inability to secure necessary external capacity couldadversely aﬀect our operating results. Transitioning production of products to new manufacturers may result in delayed product launches, reduced yields, or decreased productperformance. If we encounter issues with product quality, insuﬃcient capacity from a third-party manufacturer, or if we discontinue using a particular manufacturer or contractor, wemay face challenges in securing an alternative supply for speciﬁc products in a timely manner. This could lead to signiﬁcant delays in product shipments, potentially having an adverseimpact on our results of operations. If our reliance on third-party contractors increases over time, our inability to secure necessary external capacity could adversely aﬀect ouroperating results.
In August 2022, the U.S. government passed the CHIPS Act to provide billions of dollars of cash incentives and a new investment tax credit to increase domestic manufacturingcapacity in our industry. We expect to receive the cash beneﬁt associated with the investment tax credit for qualifying capital expenditures in future periods and applied for otherincentives provided by the legislation; however, we have not concluded negotiations with the U.S. Department of Commerce and there can be no assurance that we will pursue orreceive any such other incentives, what the amount and timing of any incentive we receive will be, as to which other companies will receive incentives and whether the legislationwill have a positive or negative impact on our competitive position. If we conclude our CHIPS Act negotiations and receive a CHIPS Act grant, the restrictions and operationalrequirements that are imposed on CHIPS Act grant recipients could add complexity to our operations and increase our costs.
Our use of third parties reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. Our future operating results could suﬀer if a signiﬁcant contractor were toexperience production diﬃculties, insuﬃcient capacity, decreased manufacturing, reduced availability of labor, assembly and test yields, or increased costs due to disruptions such aspolitical upheaval, transit disruptions, infrastructure disruption or pandemics. Additionally, our future operating results could suﬀer if our wafer foundries and other contractorsincrease the prices of the products and services that they provide to us. If third parties do not timely deliver products or services in accordance with our quality standards, we may beunable to qualify alternate manufacturing sources in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon processes that we need, orfail to adopt technologies that we desire to control costs. In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing costs or a decline in productreliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely aﬀected. Further, use of subcontractors increases the risks of misappropriation of our intellectual property.
17
Table of Contents
Certain of our SuperFlash and other technology licensees rely on wafer foundries. If our licensees experienced disruption in supply at such foundries, this would reduce therevenue from our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results.
We are highly dependent on foreign sales, suppliers, and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks.
Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During ﬁscal 2025, approximately 75% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including17% in China and 16% in Taiwan. During ﬁscal 2024, approximately 75% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 18% in China, 12% in Taiwan and 10% in Germany.
Having a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. Although our sales in the Chinese market were very strong in calendar 2021,competition in China is intense, and China's economic growth slowed in calendar 2022 and through the ﬁrst half of calendar 2023. In ﬁscal 2024 and in ﬁscal 2025, economicweakness in the Chinese market adversely impacted our sales volumes in China. As discussed above, the trade relationship between the U.S. and China remains challenging andcould worsen in 2025, economic conditions in China remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. The increasein tariﬀs on semiconductors and raw materials that have the U.S. as their country of origin could lower demand for our products in China and other countries. Further, increasinginvestment in the semiconductor industry by the Chinese government and various state-owned of aﬃliated entities are intended to advance China's stated national policy objectives.The Chinese government may restrict us from participating in the China market, or may prevent us from competing eﬀectively with Chinese companies. Weakening of foreignmarkets, especially in China, has resulted in lower demand for our products, which has adversely impacted our revenue in recent quarters and, if such conditions continue, it couldhave a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations or ﬁnancial conditions.
We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. Please see the risks related to access to raw materials, components, or equipmenton page 16. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities, and ﬁnished goods warehouses near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instabilityand severe ﬂooding in the past. There can be no assurance that any future ﬂooding or political instability in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. Wehave a test facility in Calamba, Philippines. We use foundries and other foreign contractors for a signiﬁcant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements.
Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our ﬁnished goods inventory at foreign locations and signiﬁcant foreign sales exposes usto foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to:
• economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets we serve;• trade restrictions and changes in tariﬀs;• political instability, including changes in relations between China and Taiwan which could disrupt the operations of our Taiwan-based third-party wafer foundries, andsubcontractors;• social and economic instability due to public health concerns, wars, or other factors;• supply chain disruptions or delays;• potentially adverse tax consequences;• import and export license requirements and restrictions;• changes in laws related to taxes, trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards, climate change, and consumer protection;• restrictions on the transfer of funds, including currency controls in China, which could negatively aﬀect the amount and timing of certain customer payments, and as aresults our cash ﬂows;• currency ﬂuctuations and foreign exchange regulations;• diﬃculties in staﬃng and managing international operations;• employment regulations;• disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents;• disruptions in international transport or delivery;• public health conditions (including viral outbreaks such as COVID-19); and• diﬃculties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles.
If any of these risks occur or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suﬀer, we could face an increase in the cost of components,production delays, business interruptions, delays in obtaining export licenses, or denials of such licenses, tariﬀs and trade restrictions, longer payment cycles, increased taxes,restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, any of which could ultimately have a
18
Table of Contents
material adverse eﬀect on our business. Further changes in trade policy, tariﬀs, additional taxes, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earthminerals, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit ourability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations, or ﬁnancial conditions.
We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and have limited visibility to product shipments other than orders placed under our LTSAs.
Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and orders that are both received and shipped in the same quarter, which we callturns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, ourability to respond quickly to customer orders has been part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter leadtimes generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our visibility on future shipments. Turns orderscorrelate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times, and in light of current industry conditions, turns orders are once again key to our ability to meet ourbusiness objectives. Because turns orders can be diﬃcult to predict, especially in times of economic volatility and changes in tariﬀs, as experienced in current and recent quarters,where customers may change order levels within the quarter, varying levels of turns orders make it more diﬃcult to forecast net sales. The level of turns orders has in the past andmay in the future decrease in periods where customers are holding excess inventory of our products. We believe our customers increased their order levels in previous periods oftight supply to help ensure they had suﬃcient inventory of our products to meet their needs, and then they were unable to sell their products at their forecasted levels whichreduced our level of turns orders. As a signiﬁcant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may aﬀect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. If wedo not achieve a suﬃcient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets or eﬀectively manage our production based on changes in order forecasts, ourrevenue and operating results will likely suﬀer.
Starting in the ﬁrst quarter of calendar 2022, we began entering into LTSAs, which oﬀer our customers the ability to receive prioritized capacity. LTSAs are not a guarantee ofsupply; however, they were designed to provide the highest priority for those orders which were under this program, and the capacity priority was on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served basisuntil the available capacity was booked. For example, in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2023, in ﬁscal 2024 and in ﬁscal 2025, we accommodated requests by customers to push-outcertain orders to help them manage inventory levels and, in some cases, to help other customers that are experiencing supply shortages. However, in the event that we decide to notaccommodate a request to push out orders and customers under this program still attempt to cancel or reschedule orders, or refuse shipment, we may be unable to recover damagesfrom customers that default under this program. Additionally, this program has resulted in some customers holding excess inventory of our products and thus decreased their needto place new orders, including turns orders, in recent periods. We built inventories in response to customer demand, and the cancellation or deferral of product orders has resulted inexcess inventory, which has resulted in write-downs of inventory and an adverse eﬀect on our gross margins in recent periods.
Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales or reduced market share.
The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and faces price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductorcompanies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater ﬁnancial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. In addition, somegovernments, such as China, may provide, or have provided and may continue to provide, signiﬁcant assistance ﬁnancial or otherwise, to some of our competitors, or to newentrants, and may intervene in support of national industries and/or competitors, including to try to disrupt the U.S. semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry hasexperienced signiﬁcant consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product oﬀerings and scale. We maybe unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:
• changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personalcomputing and consumer electronics markets;• our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies or complying with new governmental restrictions regardingimplementation of new technologies;• the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their applications and the success of such applications;• our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies at acceptable prices;
19
Table of Contents
• our ability to ramp production and increase capacity as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities;• the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;• the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products;• product introductions by our competitors;• the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;• our ability to protect our products and processes by eﬀective utilization of intellectual property rights;• our ability to address the needs of our customers;• our ability to attract and retain talent, including talent with expertise in developing areas such as AI; and• general market and economic conditions.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of a product.  The average selling prices of our mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGAproducts, and proprietary products in our analog product line have remained relatively constant over time, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary productsin our analog product line have declined over time. The overall average selling price of our products is aﬀected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographicmix of sales can cause wider ﬂuctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period.
We have experienced, and may experience in the future, modest pricing declines in certain of our proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. In the past,we have moderated average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. However, we may notbe able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, competitive pricing pressures on our memory and non-proprietary products in ouranalog product line. In ﬁscal 2023 and ﬁscal 2022, we experienced cost increases which we were able to pass on to our customers. However, in the future, we may be unable tomaintain average selling prices due to increased pricing pressure, including as a result of actions taken by foreign governments such as China to favor companies located in their owncountry through tariﬀs or other actions, which could adversely impact our operating results.
We, and our competitors, seek to improve yields, and reduce die size, which could result in signiﬁcant increases in worldwide supply and downward pressure on prices. Increasesin worldwide supply of semiconductor products, if not accompanied by commensurate increases in demand, could lead to declines in average selling prices for our products, andcould materially adversely aﬀect our business, results of operations, or ﬁnancial condition.
Our operating results will suﬀer if we ineﬀectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.
Integrated circuit manufacturing processes are complex and sensitive to many factors, including contaminants in the manufacturing environment or materials used, theperformance of our personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturingyields. Our operating results will suﬀer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss ofrevenue, and penalties for failure to meet shipment deadlines. Our operating results are adversely aﬀected when we operate below normal capacity. In ﬁscal 2025 and in ﬁscal 2024,we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in unabsorbed capacity charges of $173.0 million and $40.7 million, respectively. Additionally, as we are moving productionbetween factories, we may experience lower than anticipated yields during this transition.
Our operating results are impacted by seasonality and wide ﬂuctuations of supply and demand in the industry.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide ﬂuctuations of supply and demand.  Historically, since a signiﬁcant portion of our revenue is frominternational sales and consumer markets, our business generates stronger revenues in the ﬁrst half and comparatively weaker revenues in the second half of our ﬁscal year.However, broad ﬂuctuations in our business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had and can have a more signiﬁcant impact on our results thanseasonality. In periods when broad ﬂuctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is diﬃcult to assess the impact of seasonality on our business. Thesemiconductor industry has had signiﬁcant economic downturns (including in recent periods), characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We havesought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broadrange of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period ﬂuctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-periodﬂuctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. In this regard, many of our customers felt the eﬀects of slowing economic activity and increasingbusiness uncertainty and customer requests to push-out or cancel backlog increased in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2023 and in ﬁscal 2024 and adversely impacted our revenue inrecent periods.
20
Table of Contents
Consistent with the slowing macroeconomic environment, and the growth in our inventory, we have paused our factory expansion actions at Fab 4 and Fab 5 and reduced ourplanned capital investments through ﬁscal 2026. We are unable to predict the duration or continued impact of the current or any future slowdown on our business.
Our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers.
Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales in ﬁscal 2025 and approximately 47% of our net sales in ﬁscal 2024. With the exception of certain ordersplaced under our LTSAs, we do not have long-term purchase agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or noadvance notice.
Future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies and labor markets or credit markets due to tariﬀs or other factors could materially impact distributor operations. Anydeterioration in the ﬁnancial condition, or disruption in the operations of our distributors, would likely adversely impact the ﬂow of our products to our end customers and adverselyimpact our results of operation. In addition, during an industry or economic downturn (including in recent periods), there may be an oversupply and decrease in demand for ourproducts, which could reduce our net sales in a given period, increase order push-outs, increase inventory returns, and cause us to carry elevated levels of inventory. For example, inthe fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2023, in ﬁscal 2024 and in ﬁscal 2025, we have accommodated requests by customers to push-out certain orders to help them manage inventory levelsand, in some cases, to help other customers that are experiencing supply shortages. As a result of the foregoing, we have incurred charges in connection with obsolete or excessinventory, or we may not fully recover our costs, which would reduce our gross margins. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and sanction laws, or similarlaws, by our distributors could have a material adverse impact on our business.
Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.
Our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete eﬀectively on the basis of price and performance and whichaddress customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to:
• eﬀective new product selection;• timely completion and introduction of new product designs;• availability of skilled employees;• procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms, including those that may be needed to oﬀerinteroperability between our products and third-party products;• implementation of appropriate technical standards developed by standard setting organizations;• timely ﬁling and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs;• availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and• market acceptance of our customers' end products.
Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. New products may not receive or maintainsubstantial market acceptance.  We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results.
Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapidtechnological change and require signiﬁcant R&D expenditures. We and others in the industry have, from time to time, experienced diﬃculties in transitioning to advanced processtechnologies and have suﬀered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely aﬀected if any transition to futureprocess technologies is substantially delayed or ineﬃciently implemented.
Business interruptions to our operations or those of our key vendors, licensees or customers could harm our business.
Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our signiﬁcant vendors, licensees or customersmay be disrupted due to public health concerns (including outbreaks such as COVID-19), work stoppages or reduction in available labor, power loss, insuﬃcient water, cyber-attacks,computer network compromises, incidents of terrorism or security risk, tariﬀs, political instability, governmental actions, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructurefailure, radioactive contamination, adverse changes in climate, or ﬁres, earthquakes, ﬂoods, droughts, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. We have taken steps to mitigatethe impact
21
Table of Contents
of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that we will avoid a signiﬁcant impact on our business in the event of a business interruption. For example,in August 2024, we determined that an unauthorized party disrupted our use of certain servers and some of our business operations. As a result, certain of our manufacturingfacilities were operating at less than normal levels for a period of time, and our ability to fulﬁll orders was temporarily impacted. While we were able to bring the aﬀected portions ofour IT systems back online and restore normal business operations in response to this August 2024 incident without a material impact to our business, we cannot be certain that wewould be able to achieve this result in the event of another cyber incident. Separately, in the ﬁrst three months of ﬁscal 2023 and in ﬁscal 2022, COVID-19 related restrictionsadversely impacted our manufacturing operations in the U.S., the Philippines and Thailand along with our subcontractors' manufacturing operations in Malaysia, Taiwan and China.Similar challenges arose for our logistics service providers, which adversely impacted their ability to ship product to our customers. Any future pandemic could adversely impact ourbusiness in future periods if public health issues again becomes severe in one or more of our key markets such as China or in areas where our suppliers or manufacturing operationsare located. In the future, local governments could require us to reduce production or cease operations at any of our facilities, and we could experience constraints in fulﬁllingcustomer orders.
Additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. In April and May 2020, we received a greater number of order cancellationsand requests by our customers to reschedule deliveries to future dates. Some customers requested order cancellations within our ﬁrm order window and claimed applicability offorce majeure clauses due to the impact of COVID-19. Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease inproduct demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline.
Also, Thailand has experienced periods of severe ﬂooding in recent years. While our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance thatfuture ﬂooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we maynot be able to timely shift production to other facilities, and we may need to spend signiﬁcant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment.  Business interruptionswould likely cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reducedrevenues, cancellation of orders, or loss of customers. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not compensate us for any losses or damages,and business interruptions could signiﬁcantly harm our business. For more information on adverse climate change see our risk "Sustained adverse climate change poses risks thatcould harm our results of operations" on page 36.
Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.
Our technology licensing business is based on our SuperFlash and other technologies. The success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance ofthese technologies and on our ability to further develop such technologies, to introduce new technologies, and to enforce our license terms. To be successful, any such technologymust be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. The success of ourtechnology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to:
• proper identiﬁcation of licensee requirements;• timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology;• our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology, and enforce the terms of our licenses;• our ability to limit our liability and indemniﬁcation obligations to licensees;• availability of development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products;• availability of foundry licensees with suﬃcient capacity to support OEM production; and• market acceptance of our customers' end products.
Because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. There can be no assurance that ourexisting or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or reduced productionlevels which would adversely aﬀect the revenue that we receive. Our technology license agreements generally include a clause that indemniﬁes the licensee against liability anddamages (including legal defense costs) arising from certain intellectual property matters. We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectualproperty matters or indemniﬁcation claims. We have a program to audit the royalty payments made by our licensees to help ensure that the payments are in accordance with theterms of the applicable license agreements. From time to time, we or our licensees have
22
Table of Contents
contested the amount of royalty payments and related claims have resulted and could result in signiﬁcant legal fees and require signiﬁcant attention from our management. Theseissues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely aﬀect our future operating results.
Sales into governmental projects, and compliance with associated regulations, could have a material adverse eﬀect on our results of operations.
A signiﬁcant portion of our sales are from or are derived from government agencies or customers who sell to U.S. government agencies.  Such sales are subject to uncertaintiesregarding governmental spending levels, spending priorities, regulatory and policy changes.  Future sales into U.S. government projects are subject to uncertain governmentappropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the budgetary process, changes in the timing and spending priorities, the impact of any past or futuregovernment shutdowns, contract terminations or renegotiations, future sequestrations, changes in regulations that we must comply with to be eligible to accept new contracts, suchas the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certiﬁcation requirements, or the impact of pandemics.  For example, in ﬁscal 2022, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experiencedsuspensions and stop work orders for some of our subcontracts. Additionally, a section in the U.S. National Defense Authorization Act of 2023 (the NDAA 2023), signed into law onDecember 23, 2022, with provisions that go into eﬀect in December 2027, prohibits U.S. government agencies from buying semiconductor products or services manufactured bySMIC, YMTC, CXMT and any other entity that the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Commerce determine is owned, controlled, or connected to the government of a foreigncountry of concern (Prohibited Companies). Some of our products are manufactured at SMIC, and some of our suppliers buy products manufactured at YMTC. If we are unable toalternately source or manufacture certain of our products, or discontinue use of products from Prohibited Companies, if any, when Section 5949 of the NDAA 2023 goes into eﬀect inDecember 2027, this could adversely impact our sales to U.S. government agencies and their prime customers. Although such actions have not yet had a material adverse impact onour business, there can be no assurance as to the future costs or implications of such actions. Sales into government projects are also subject to uncertainties related to monetary,regulatory, tax and trade policies implemented by current or future administrations or by the U.S. Congress.
Delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the U.S. federal government, couldmaterially and adversely aﬀect our operating results. If, in the future, the U.S. government fails to complete its annual budget process, provide for a continuing resolution to fundgovernment operations or increase the federal debt limit, another federal government shutdown may occur, during which we may experience further delays, reductions in orterminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely aﬀect our operating results. While we generally function as a subcontractor in these typeof transactions, further changes in U.S. government procurement regulations and practices, particularly surrounding initiatives to reduce costs or increase compliance obligations(such as the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certiﬁcation), may adversely impact the contracting environment, our ability to hire and retain employees, and our operating results.
The U.S. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with us at any time. Uncertainty in government spending and termination of contracts for governmentrelated projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenue from our government related business.  Our contracts with U.S. governmental agencies or prime customersrequire us to comply with the contract terms, and governmental regulations, particularly for our facilities, systems and personnel that service such customers and related to handlingof government-regulated data.  To be awarded new contracts, we may be required to meet certain levels of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certiﬁcations that we may not meet, ormay choose not to meet. We are also required to have facility security clearances to perform classiﬁed contracts and to build and sell classiﬁed products for U.S. governmentalagencies. These clearances are subject to the requirements and regulations including the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual that governs the protection ofclassiﬁed information released or disclosed in connection with the performance of classiﬁed government contracts. We must also comply with regulations regarding the handling ofcontrolled unclassiﬁed information and export-controlled data. Complying with these regulations, including audit requirements, requires that we devote signiﬁcant resources to suchmatters in terms of training, personnel, information technology and facilities. The increased cost of compliance may adversely aﬀect our operating results. Any failure to comply withthese requirements and regulations may result in ﬁnes and penalties, or loss of current or future business including our ability to continue as a supplier to U.S. governmentalagencies and its contractors and may materially and adversely aﬀect our operating results.
From time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations, or enter into tax arrangements. If we are unable to comply with the terms ofthose grants or arrangements, we may not be able to receive or recognize beneﬁts or we may be required to repay beneﬁts, recognize related charges, or could be requiredto implement
23
Table of Contents
certain limitations on our business, which would adversely aﬀect our operating results and ﬁnancial position.
From time to time, we have received, and may in the future receive, economic incentive grants, tax beneﬁts, and allowances from national, state and local governments,agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment, production or investment at speciﬁc locations. Tax arrangements and subsidy grant agreements typicallycontain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditures and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain beneﬁts, and theseprograms can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. The CHIPS Act and its associated regulations, for example, may contain certain restrictions on grantrecipient technology licensing activities and the expansion of certain facilities. Compliance with these restrictions could add complexity to our operations and increase our costs. Inaddition, noncompliance with the conditions of the grants or arrangements could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as therepayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. We may be unable to obtain future incentives to continue to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and operatingcosts, without which our cost structure would be adversely impacted. Further, any decrease in amounts received could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results ofoperations, or ﬁnancial condition.
We may not fully realize the anticipated beneﬁts of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. In May 2018, we acquiredMicrosemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever. Integration of our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipatedissues, expenses and liabilities. We may not successfully or proﬁtably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able tomaintain uniform standards, procedures and policies. We may not realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. There may be increased risk due to integratingﬁnancial reporting and internal control systems. It may be diﬃcult to develop, manufacture and market the products of a newly acquired company, or grow the business at the ratewe anticipate. There may be increased risk associated with the activities of the acquired company such as regulatory violations related to their use of AI in their operations,technology development or product oﬀerings or cyber security risks. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. Wemay suﬀer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be diﬃcult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. We havebeen and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, stockholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.In particular, in connection with our Microsemi and Atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related tosuch businesses and transactions. Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-oﬀs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill),contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely aﬀect our operating results. To fund our acquisitionof Microsemi, we used a signiﬁcant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt. We may fund future acquisitions of new businesses orstrategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, issuing Commercial Paper, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms.
Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, it may be diﬃcult to ﬁnd or complete divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies, which may include site closures,timely or on acceptable terms. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to the desireddivestiture, or the price or terms of the divestiture may be less favorable than we had anticipated. Even following a divestiture or other exit strategy, we may have certain continuingobligations to former employees, customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. We may also have continuing liabilities related to former employees, assets or businesses. Suchobligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other strategic relationships with other companies.These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected beneﬁts of any such transaction, tosuccessfully market and sell products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.
As a result of our acquisition activity our goodwill and intangible assets increased signiﬁcantly and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets.
When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identiﬁable intangible assets. The amount of thepurchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identiﬁable assets acquired. As of March 31, 2025, we had goodwillof $6.68
24
Table of Contents
billion and net intangible assets of $2.39 billion. In connection with the completion of our acquisition of Microsemi in May 2018, our goodwill and intangible assets increasedsigniﬁcantly. We review our indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth ﬁscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstancesindicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired.  Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may beimpaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash ﬂows and slower growth rates in our industry.  Our valuation methodology forassessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance.  Becausewe operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash ﬂows may vary signiﬁcantly from our actual results.  Through March 31, 2025, wehave never recorded a goodwill impairment charge. There were no intangible asset impairment charges in ﬁscal 2025. If in future periods, we determine that our goodwill orintangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative eﬀect on our consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
If we fail to maintain proper and eﬀective internal control and remediate any future control deﬁciencies, our ability to produce accurate and timely ﬁnancial statements couldbe impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our reputation with investors.
We have in the past identiﬁed a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identiﬁed a material weakness in our internalcontrols related to IT system access. Although such material weaknesses were remediated in ﬁscal 2020, there can be no assurance that similar control issues will not be identiﬁed inthe future. If we cannot remediate future material weaknesses or signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in a timely manner, or if we identify additional control deﬁciencies that individually ortogether constitute signiﬁcant deﬁciencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report ﬁnancial information and our ability to prepare ﬁnancialstatements within required time periods, could be adversely aﬀected. Failure to maintain eﬀective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stockexchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively aﬀect investor conﬁdence in our ﬁnancialstatements, and adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access capital markets.
Ensuring that we have adequate internal ﬁnancial and accounting controls and procedures so that we can produce accurate ﬁnancial statements on a timely basis is a costly andtime-consuming eﬀort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability ofﬁnancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 whichrequires an annual management assessment of the eﬀectiveness of our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting and a report by our independent auditors. In addition to theidentiﬁed material weaknesses related to accounting for income taxes and to IT system access, which were remediated as of March 31, 2020, we have from time to time identiﬁedother signiﬁcant deﬁciencies. If we fail to remediate any future material weaknesses or signiﬁcant deﬁciencies or to maintain proper and eﬀective internal control over ﬁnancialreporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely ﬁnancial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate ourbusiness and reduce the trading price of our stock.
Customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur highercosts.
Some of our customers require that we implement practices that are more stringent than those required by applicable laws with respect to labor requirements, the materialscontained in our products, energy eﬃciency, environmental impact or other items. To comply with such requirements, we may require our suppliers to adopt such practices. Oursuppliers may in the future refuse to implement these practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. If certain of our suppliers refuse to implement the practices, wemay be forced to source from alternate suppliers. The cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our proﬁtability, and if we do not implementsuch practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. Developing, enforcing, and auditing customer-requested practices at ourown sites and in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require more personnel.
We must attract and retain qualiﬁed personnel to be successful, and competition for qualiﬁed personnel has intensiﬁed.
We must attract and retain qualiﬁed personnel to be successful, and competition for qualiﬁed personnel and available labor may intensify for a variety of reasons, including theincrease in work-from-home arrangements, the wage inﬂation in our industry, and the demand for employees with expertise in developing ﬁelds such as AI.
25
Table of Contents
Our business relies on the ability to attract and retain skilled employees across various functions, including management, technical, marketing, sales, research and development,manufacturing, and operations. Our failure to attract and retain hardware and software engineers, as well as sales and marketing personnel, could delay product development andintroduction, thereby adversely aﬀecting our net sales. We depend on a direct labor force at our manufacturing facilities, and any inability to maintain this workforce could adverselyaﬀect our operations. This could lead to delays in production and shipments, hinder our ability to meet customer demand, and ultimately adversely impact our business, ﬁnancialcondition, and operational results. As the integration of AI becomes more prevalent, there is an anticipated shift in the skills required within the workforce, making AI literacyincreasingly important for our employees. Competition for personnel with AI expertise may be intense and costly.
In the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2025, we began a global reduction of our work force that could negatively aﬀect employee morale, and diminish our attractiveness as an employer.If we lose existing qualiﬁed personnel or are unable to hire new qualiﬁed personnel, as needed, it could impair our ability to compete eﬀectively.
Furthermore, changes in immigration laws and regulations, or more robust enforcement of new or existing laws, may hinder our ability to attract and retain qualiﬁed engineeringpersonnel. In the U.S., where a portion of our research and development teams are based, stricter immigration controls could adversely aﬀect the employment status of non-U.S.engineers and other key technical employees, as well as our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees. U.S. immigration policies may also make it more challenging to recruit and retainhighly skilled foreign national graduates from U.S. universities.
Our success depends on the contributions of our senior management team. We have experienced transitions with respect to certain members of our senior management due toretirements or other reasons in the past and may do so in the future. Eﬀective succession planning is important for our long-term success and we have a program designed to addressthis risk. Because we have no employment agreements with our U.S. senior management team, they could leave with little or no notice, which could make it more diﬃcult for us toexecute our planned business strategy. The inability to ﬁnd suitable replacements for senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond tothe rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate.
The occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely aﬀect our proﬁtability and liquidity.
We have insurance coverage related to many diﬀerent types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially signiﬁcant risks and obligations, because we believe that it ismore cost eﬀective for us to self-insure than to pay the high premium costs. The risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to, employee health matters,certain property matters, product defects, cybersecurity matters, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters. Should there be a loss oradverse judgment in an area for which we are self-insured, then our ﬁnancial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely aﬀected.
Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Products, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Litigation
We continue to be the target of attacks on our IT systems. Interruptions in and unauthorized access to our IT systems, security breaches or incidents impacting our systems ordata that we or our service providers maintain or otherwise process including data belonging to us, or our customers, suppliers, contractors or employees, could adverselyaﬀect our business.
We rely on the uninterrupted operation of complex IT systems and networks to operate our business.  Any improper handling of conﬁdential data, or signiﬁcant disruption to oursystems or networks, including, but not limited to, any that may relate to new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches or incidents, cyber-attacks, ransom-styleattacks, theft or tampering, inadvertent error, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts, security breaches or incidents in ourcustomers’ or third-party providers’ networks, in third-party products we use, or in cloud-based services provided to, by, or enabled by us, or any data we or our service providersmaintain or otherwise process, including but not limited to, data belonging to us or our customers, suppliers, contractors or employees, or any perception any of the foregoing hasoccurred, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations, supply chain, sales and operating results, result in regulatory inquiries, investigations or otherproceedings against us, result in claims, demands and litigation against us, or damage our reputation.  Such improper handling of conﬁdential data, or system or network disruption,or any cyber-attack or other means of eﬀectuating a security breach or incident, could result in loss or unavailability of all or a portion of our systems and business operations, and aloss, unavailability, an unauthorized release of, or other unauthorized use or processing of, personal data, or our suppliers’ or our customers’ intellectual property or conﬁdential,proprietary or sensitive information. Any such matter, or any perception that it has occurred, could harm our
26
Table of Contents
business or competitive position, result in a loss of customer conﬁdence, and cause us to incur signiﬁcant costs to remedy the damages, and may result in lower revenue, lowermargins, regulatory investigations, inquiries or other proceedings, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, claims for damages, litigation, and ﬁnes, penalties, damages, otherliabilities, and other sanctions.
We have experienced and continue to experience veriﬁable attacks on our IT systems and data, including network compromises, attempts to breach our security measures andattempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems. For example, in August 2024, we determined that an unauthorized party disrupted our use of certain servers and someof our business operations. As a result, certain of our manufacturing facilities were operating at less than normal levels for a period of time, and our ability to fulﬁll orders wastemporarily impacted. While we were able to bring the aﬀected portions of our IT systems back online and restore normal business operations in response to this August 2024incident without a material impact to our business, we cannot be certain that we would be able to achieve this result in the event of another cyber-attack. We routinely evaluate theeﬀectiveness of the containment mechanisms that we have implemented and continue to implement additional measures. We analyzed the information that was compromised inAugust 2024 and we do not believe that this cyber incident has had a material adverse eﬀect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us. New information can developthat may impact our assessment of cyber events, including information learned as we develop and deploy mitigations.
Due to the types of products we sell and the signiﬁcant amount of sales we make to government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to U.S. government agencies,we have experienced and expect to continue to experience in the future, attacks on our IT systems and data, including attempts to breach our security, network compromises andattempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems. Geopolitical events and tensions may increase these risks. Also, as AI continues to evolve, cyber-attackers could use AIto develop malicious code, sophisticated phishing attempts, and convincing deep fakes. A deep fake is a manipulation of our content or the voices or images of our leaders tomaliciously publish false messages that appear to be authentic. Such messages may harm our reputation, which may in turn have an adverse impact on our revenue and proﬁts, andreduce the trading price of our stock. A threat could also be introduced by our or our customers and business partners use of AI tools. The output of these tools may include threatssuch as introducing malicious code when AI generated source code is incorporated into products or systems. Were any future attacks to be successful, or through the unintentionalintroduction of security vulnerability due to AI usage, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its eﬀects until signiﬁcant harm is done. More generally, we may facesigniﬁcant delays in identifying, remediating, and otherwise responding to any interruption, disruption, security breach or incident.
In recent years, we have regularly implemented improvements to our protective measures that have included, but have not been limited to, implementation of the following:ﬁrewalls, endpoint intrusion detection and response software, regular patches, log monitors, event correlation tools, network segmentation, routine backups with oﬀsite retention ofstorage media, system audits, dual factor identiﬁcation, data partitioning, privileged account segregation and monitoring, routine password modiﬁcations, and an enhancedinformation security program including training classes and phishing exercises for employees and contractors with system access, along with tabletop exercises conducted byinformation security personnel. As a result of the material weakness in our internal controls resulting from the IT systems compromise that we experienced in ﬁscal 2019, we havetaken remediation actions and implemented additional controls and we are continuing to take actions to attempt to address evolving threats. However, our system improvementshave not been fully eﬀective in preventing attacks on our IT systems and data, including breaches of our security measures, and there can be no assurance that any future systemimprovements will be eﬀective in preventing cyber-attacks or disruptions, a ransom-style attack, or limiting the damage from any cyber-attacks or disruptions. Our ability to recoverfrom ransomware and other ransom-style attacks may be limited if our backups have been aﬀected by the attack, or if restoring data from backups is delayed or not feasible. Oursystem improvements have resulted in increased costs to us and we may be required to dedicate additional expenditures and resources to making system improvements andotherwise addressing cybersecurity matters in the future, whether in response to any disruption, interruption, breach, incident or otherwise. Further, any future improvements,attacks or disruptions could result in additional costs related to rebuilding our internal systems, defending litigation, complaints or other claims, providing notices to regulatoryagencies or other third parties, responding to regulatory inquiries, actions or other proceedings, or paying damages, ﬁnes or penalties. Such attacks or disruptions could have amaterial adverse impact on our business, operations and ﬁnancial results. Furthermore, our eﬀorts to comply with evolving laws and regulations related to cybersecurity, such as SECrules requiring disclosure of a material cybersecurity incident, may be costly and any actual or alleged failure to comply could result in investigations, proceedings, investor lawsuitsand reputational damage.
In addition, employees and former employees, in particular former employees who become employees of our competitors, customers, licensees, or other third parties, includingstate actors, have in the past and may in the future misappropriate, wrongfully use, publish, access, process or provide to our competitors, customers, licensees or other third
27
Table of Contents
parties, including state actors, our technology, intellectual property, or other proprietary or conﬁdential information. This risk would be exacerbated to the extent our competitors fortalent, particularly engineering talent, hire our employees. Similarly, we provide access to certain of our technology, intellectual property, and other proprietary or conﬁdentialinformation to our direct and indirect customers and licensees and certain of our consultants, who may wrongfully use such technology, intellectual property or information, orwrongfully disclose such technology, intellectual property or information to third parties, including our competitors or state actors.
Third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors, and other vendors have access to portions of our andour customers' data. These service providers also face signiﬁcant cybersecurity threats, and they may be subject to cyber-attacks, disruptions, and interruptions to their networks andsystems, and otherwise may suﬀer from security breaches and incidents. Any such breach or incident, including any involving misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized processingof data maintained or otherwise processed by our third-party service providers, or any perception any of these has occurred, could negatively impact our business, operations andﬁnancial results, as well as our relationship with our customers.
Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are suﬃcient to protect usfrom liabilities, damages, or claims related to our cybersecurity practices or measures. We do not have insurance coverage specially for cybersecurity matters. Insurance coveragethat we do have may not be adequate or suﬃcient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our cybersecurity practices or measures or otherwise relating to anycybersecurity breach or incident, and we cannot be sure that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will payfuture claims.
We face risks related to security vulnerabilities in our products.
Our products, or IP that we purchase or license from third parties for use in our products, as well as industry-standard speciﬁcations that we implement in our products, may besubject to security vulnerabilities. And, while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on ourproducts, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. Our productsare being used in application areas that create new or increased cybersecurity, privacy or safety risks including applications that gather and process data, such as the cloud or Internetof Things, and automotive applications. We, our customers, and the users of our products may not promptly learn of or have the ability to fully assess the magnitude or eﬀects of avulnerability, including the extent, if any, to which a vulnerability has been exploited. Additionally, new information can develop that may impact our assessment of a securityvulnerability, including information learned as we develop and deploy mitigations, or become aware of additional variants or evaluate the competitiveness of products.
Security vulnerabilities and any limitations of, or adverse eﬀects resulting from, mitigation techniques can adversely aﬀect our results of operations, ﬁnancial condition, sales,customer relationships, share price, prospects, and reputation in a number of ways, any of which may be material. Adverse publicity about security vulnerabilities or mitigationscould damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. These eﬀects may be greater to the extent that competing products are notsusceptible to the same vulnerabilities or if vulnerabilities can be more eﬀectively mitigated in competing products. Moreover, third parties can release information regardingpotential vulnerabilities of our products before mitigations are available. This, in turn, could lead to attempted or successful exploits of vulnerabilities, adversely aﬀect our ability tointroduce mitigations, or otherwise harm our business and reputation.
We face risks to our business and proprietary conﬁdential information due to use of AI.
We limit our employees’ use of third-party and open-source AI tools, such as ChatGPT, in accordance with our internal guidelines and procedures. However, the internalgovernance of the use of these technologies can be challenging, and our employees and consultants may use these tools on an unauthorized basis and our partners may use thesetools, which poses additional risks relating to the protection of data, including the potential exposure of our proprietary conﬁdential or other controlled information to unauthorizedrecipients and the misuse of our or third-party intellectual property. Use of AI tools may result in allegations or claims against us related to violation of third-party intellectualproperty rights, unauthorized access to or use of proprietary information, failure to comply with open-source software requirements, and failure to comply with actual or assertedlegal or other obligations. AI tools may also produce inaccurate responses that could lead to errors in our decision-making, product development or other business activities, whichcould have a negative impact on our business, operating results and ﬁnancial condition. Our ability to mitigate these risks will depend on our continued eﬀective
28
Table of Contents
maintaining, training, monitoring and enforcement of appropriate guidelines and procedures governing the use of AI tools, and the results of any such use, by us or our partners.
Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI, may result in reputational or ﬁnancial harm and liability.
Concerns relating to the responsible use of technologies, including new and evolving technologies such as AI, in our internal operations, products and services may result inreputational or ﬁnancial harm and liability and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such issues. AI poses emerging legal, social, and ethical issues and presents risks and challengesthat could aﬀect its adoption, and therefore our business. If we enable or oﬀer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, such as AI solutionsthat have unintended consequences, infringe copyright or rights of publicity, or are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment or other social,economic or political issues, or if we are unable to develop eﬀective internal policies and frameworks relating to the responsible development and use of AI enabling products, wemay experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Complying with regulations from diﬀerent jurisdictions related to AI could increase our cost of doingbusiness, may change the way that we operate in certain jurisdictions, or may impede our ability to use AI in our internal operations or oﬀer certain products and services in certainjurisdictions if we are unable to comply with regulations. Compliance with existing and proposed government regulation of AI, including in jurisdictions such as the EU, may alsoincrease the cost of related research and development, and create additional reporting and/or transparency requirements. New and updated AI regulations could impose onerousobligations that may disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices, which may negatively impact our ﬁnancial results.
Our failure to comply with federal, state, or international laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and handling, and cybersecurity may materially adverselyaﬀect our business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally regarding privacy, data protection and handling, and cybersecurity, such as the European Union’s(EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the U.K. equivalent to the GDPR, and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act(CPRA), and the EU Cyber Resilience Act and Cybersecurity Act. The scope of these laws and regulations is rapidly evolving, subject to diﬀering interpretations, and may beinconsistent among jurisdictions. Some of these laws create a broad deﬁnition of personal information, establish data privacy rights, impose data breach notiﬁcation requirements,and create potentially severe statutory damages or other remedial frameworks and private rights of action for certain data breaches. Some of the laws and regulations also placerestrictions on our ability to collect, store, use, transmit and process personal information and other data across our business. For example, the GDPR restricts the ability ofcompanies to transfer personal data from the European Economic Area (EEA) to the U.S. and other countries. Some of these laws mandate data-handling and cybersecurityrequirements, conformity assessments and incident reporting such as the Cybersecurity Maturity Model. Further, such laws and regulations have resulted and will continue to resultin signiﬁcantly greater compliance burdens and costs for companies such as us that have employees, customers, and operations in the EEA or make sales into government-relatedprojects.
We have relied mainly on the European Commission’s Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs), for transfers of personal information from the EEA to the U.S. or other countries.However, the Court of Justice of the EU in a July 2020 decision (Schrems II) invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework (Privacy Shield), and also called for stricter conditions inthe use of the SCCs. Following the Schrems II decision, certain data protection authorities in the EU have issued statements advising companies within their jurisdiction not totransfer personal data to the U.S. under the SCCs. The EU and U.S. have established a successor framework to the Privacy Shield, the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. DPF),but it already has faced a legal challenge and may face additional legal challenges. If we are unable to implement suﬃcient safeguards to ensure that our transfers of personalinformation from the EEA are lawful, we may face increased exposure to regulatory actions and substantial ﬁnes and injunctions against processing personal information from theEEA. The loss of our ability to lawfully transfer personal data out of the EEA may cause reluctance or refusal by European customers to communicate with us as they are currently,and we may be required to increase our data processing capabilities in the EEA at signiﬁcant expense. Additionally, other countries outside of the EEA have passed or are consideringpassing laws requiring local data residency, which could increase the cost and complexity of providing our products in those jurisdictions.
Furthermore, the GDPR and the U.K. equivalent of the GDPR expose us to two parallel data protection regimes in Europe, each of which potentially authorizes ﬁnes andenforcement actions for certain violations. Substantial ﬁnes may be imposed for breaches of data protection requirements, which can be up to 4% of a company’s worldwide revenueor 20 million Euros, whichever is greater, and classes of individuals or consumer protection organizations may initiate litigation related to our processing of their personal data.Although the U.K. data protection regime currently permits data transfers from the U.K. to
29
Table of Contents
the EEA and other third countries, covered by a European Commission 'adequacy decision' through the continued use of SCCs and binding corporate rules, these laws and regulationsare subject to change, and any such changes could have adverse implications for our transfer of personal data from the U.K. to the EEA and other third countries. Additionally, newand updated AI regulations could impose onerous obligations that may disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices.
In the U.S., federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection and handling, and cybersecurity. For example,California has enacted the CCPA, which creates new individual privacy rights for California consumers (as deﬁned in the law) and places increased privacy and security obligations onentities handling personal data of consumers or households. The CPRA, which became operative January 1, 2023, expands the CCPA’s requirements, including applying to personalinformation of business representatives and employees and establishing a new regulatory agency to implement and enforce the law. Additionally, numerous other states haveproposed or enacted laws addressing privacy and security, many of which impose obligations similar to those of the CCPA. The U.S. federal government also has laws regardinghandling of government-regulated data (e.g., controlled unclassiﬁed information, classiﬁed data, export controlled data) and is contemplating federal privacy legislation. The CCPA,and other evolving legislation relating to privacy, data protection, and information security may impact our business activities and require us to modify our policies and practices.
If other jurisdictions enact similar cross-border personal data transfer laws and local personal data residency laws, it would increase the cost and complexity of doing businessand non-compliance could result in ﬁnes or other sanctions from regulators. The inability to transfer personal data to the U.S. could signiﬁcantly and negatively impact our businessoperations, limit our ability to collaborate with parties that are subject to European and other data privacy and security laws, or require us to increase our personal data processingcapabilities in Europe and/or elsewhere at signiﬁcant expense. Some European regulators have prevented companies from transferring personal data out of Europe for allegedlyviolating the GDPR’s cross-border data transfer limitations, which could negatively impact our business.
While we plan to continue to undertake eﬀorts to conform to current legal and regulatory obligations and to account for relevant best practices, such eﬀorts may be unsuccessfulor result in signiﬁcant costs. We may also experience reluctance, or refusal by European or multi-national customers to continue to provide us with personal data due to the potentialrisk exposure of personal data transfers and the current data protection obligations imposed on them by applicable data protection laws or by certain data protection authorities.These and any other laws relating to privacy or data protection and handling and their interpretations continue to develop and their uncertainty and inconsistency may increase thecost of compliance, cause compliance challenges, restrict our ability to oﬀer products in certain locations in the same way that we have been, and potentially adversely aﬀect certainthird-party service providers. Further, any actual or alleged failure by us or our service providers to comply with laws, regulations, or other actual or asserted obligations relating toprivacy, data protection and handling, or cybersecurity may subject us to claims, demands, and litigation, sanctions or ﬁnes by regulators, and other damages and liabilities. Any ofthe foregoing may harm our reputation and market position and otherwise could adversely aﬀect our business, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings, investigations or claims.
We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings, investigations or claims regarding intellectual property rights, product defects, breach of contracts,export controls and sanctions, and other matters. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notiﬁcations from third parties from time to time who believe that we owethem indemniﬁcation or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers, or our licensees. These legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless,have in the past and could in the future result in unexpected and substantial costs to us. If we are unable to resolve or settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms,reengineer products or processes to avoid infringement, provide a cost-eﬀective remedy, or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any ofthem, be required to take a charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suﬀer a reduction or elimination in the valueof our inventories, incur reputational damage, and our business, ﬁnancial condition or results of operations could be harmed.
It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance, or use of our products. These claims may be due to injuries,economic damage, lost intellectual property, or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our or our customer’s speciﬁcations, changes inour manufacturing processes, security vulnerabilities, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insuﬃcient design or testing by our customers.We could incur signiﬁcant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to:
• costs related to writing oﬀ the value of our inventory of nonconforming products;
30
Table of Contents
• recalling nonconforming products;• providing support services, product replacements, or modiﬁcations to products and the defense of such claims;• diversion of resources from other projects;• lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders, unpaid receivables, or reimbursement of costs or damages;• customer imposed ﬁnes or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and• a requirement to pay damages, penalties or recall costs.
Because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may besigniﬁcantly higher than the revenue and proﬁts we received. While we exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may notexclude such liabilities. Further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by law. We have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, butwe do not expect that insurance will fully protect against such claims. Payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely aﬀect the results of ouroperations.
Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the application could cause damage to propertyor persons. We may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantialincreases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products.
Our contractual relationships with our customers expose us to risks and liabilities.
We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our non-distributor customers, and therefore we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers.Further, except for a few LTSAs, that are still in place, the customer contracts that we enter into generally do not require any speciﬁed level of purchases and allow customers tocancel orders or terminate the contract with limited restrictions. Under our LTSAs, customers may cancel orders in the event of price increases. While we had approximately 109,000customers, and our ten largest direct customers accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue in ﬁscal 2025, and four of our top ten direct customers are contractmanufacturers that perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and proﬁts. For example,due to uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced an increase in order cancellations and requests to reschedule deliveries to future dates in the ﬁrst quarter ofﬁscal 2021. Also, many of our customers felt the eﬀects of slowing economic activity and increasing business uncertainty, and customer requests to push-out or cancel backlog andour accommodation of their requests increased in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2023 and continued in ﬁscal 2024 and the ﬁrst half of ﬁscal 2025.
Certain customer contracts diﬀer from our standard terms of sale due to the negotiating leverage held by the customer. For example, under certain contracts we have committedto supply products on scheduled delivery dates, or extended our obligations for liabilities such as warranties or indemniﬁcation for quality issues or intellectual propertyinfringement. If we are unable to supply the customer as contractually required, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to delays in theirmanufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. We may be liable for costs and damages associated with customer claims, and we may be obligated to defend the customer againstclaims of intellectual property infringement and pay associated legal fees. While we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks of suchliabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are unable to do so. In order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existingbusiness, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have, and may in the future, have to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement or productfailure, or have to agree to liquidated damage provisions. This exposes us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products sold under such contracts, the lifetimerevenues we receive under such contracts, or potential consequential damages. Further, where we do not have negotiated customer contracts, our customer's order terms maygovern the transaction and contain terms unfavorable to us. These risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in competitive harm, lost revenue or market opportunities.
Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, wehave acquired certain patents and licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can beexpensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that are issued may nothave suﬃcient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or
31
Table of Contents
commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to, or may initiate, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Oﬃce, patent oﬃces of a foreign country or U.S. orforeign courts, which can require signiﬁcant ﬁnancial resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent asthe laws of the U.S. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third-party could result in harm to our competitive position, uncompensated lost market and revenueopportunities for us. Although we continue to aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful.
Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers, may be derived from “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors. Open sourcesoftware licenses impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make sourcecode for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license we customarily use toprotect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that thecopyright holder of any open source software were to legally establish that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release thesource code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.
Governments and courts are considering new issues in intellectual property law with respect to works created by AI technology, which could result in changing and inconsistentintellectual property rights in development processes, procedures and technologies we create with AI technology, which could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business.
Risks Related to Taxation, Laws and Regulations
Our reported ﬁnancial results may be adversely aﬀected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices.
We prepare our ﬁnancial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC. New accountingpronouncements and interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or achange in the interpretation of accounting standards or practices may have a signiﬁcant eﬀect on our reported ﬁnancial results and may aﬀect our reporting of transactionscompleted before the change is eﬀective.
Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into or from which we ship our products or import supplies could issue new export controls or trade sanctions, levy ﬁnes, restrict ordelay our ability to export products or import supplies, or increase costs associated with the manufacture or transfer of products.
A signiﬁcant portion of our sales involve export and import activities. Our U.S.-manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology or U.S. software, or productsincorporating U.S. content may be subject to laws and regulations administrated by various agencies including those under the U.S. Departments of State, Commerce, and Treasury,that govern international trade, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Export Administration Regulations (EAR), International Traﬃc in Arms Regulations,economic embargoes and tariﬀs or other trade sanctions against certain countries and parties. Licenses or license exceptions are often required for the shipment of our products tocertain countries. Our inability to timely obtain a license, for any reason, including a delay in license processing due to a federal government shutdown, or changes in governmentpolicies of approval or denial of licenses, could cause a delay in scheduled shipments which could have a material adverse impact on our revenue within the quarter of a shutdown,and in following quarters depending on the extent that license processing is delayed. Further, determination by a government that we have failed to comply with trade regulations oranti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, ﬁnes, penalties, and seizure of products, or loss of reputation, any of which could have amaterial adverse eﬀect on our business, sales and earnings. A change in laws and regulations could restrict our ability to transfer product to previously permitted countries,customers, distributors or others. For example, in October 2022, the U.S. Commerce Department published a regulation that imposed restrictions on activities in or involving China,Hong Kong, and Macau related to advanced computing integrated circuits (ICs), advanced-node ICs, computers and other commodities that contain such ICs, certain semiconductormanufacturing items, and supercomputers. The regulation also expanded controls on transactions involving semiconductor manufacturing and semiconductor equipmentmanufacturing end-uses. Further, this regulation expanded the scope of foreign-produced items subject to license requirements under U.S. law and added 28 entities located in Chinato the U.S. Commerce Department Entity List. In November 2023, the U.S. Commerce Department added restrictions and export license requirements to end uses and productcategories previously described in the October 2022 regulation. To date, the U.S. Commerce Department has issued a number of regulations that further restrict transactionsinvolving semiconductors and related products. In addition, the U.S. Departments of Commerce, State, and Treasury have been adding parties to the
32
Table of Contents
restricted parties lists, and imposing prohibitions and export licensing requirements on transactions with them. The result of these additional restrictions and the change in the U.S.Administration in 2025 is that there has been a slow-down in the processing of export license applications by the U.S. Government and an increased burden on us to conductadditional due diligence imposed by the regulations, as well as by sanctions imposed on Russia for invading Ukraine. At this time, there has not been a material impact on our abilityto obtain necessary licenses for exportation. A previous example occurred in ﬁscal 2020, when the U.S. Commerce Department eﬀectively banned U.S. companies from sellingproducts or transferring technology to certain Chinese companies, including Huawei and their related companies worldwide. In ﬁscal 2020, the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulationprohibited U.S. governmental agencies from buying equipment incorporating covered telecommunications equipment, as a substantial component or critical technology, where thetechnology came from certain Chinese companies. In July 2020, this was expanded to prohibit U.S. governmental agencies from entering into a contract with any company that usescovered telecommunications equipment whether or not the Chinese technology is related to the procurement. Since then, similar restrictions have been imposed under the NationalDefense and Authorization Act when supply chain includes certain Chinese entities. The EAR also eﬀectively prohibits sales of items for a “military end use,” to a "military end-user,"or for a "military intelligence" end-user, or end-use to certain countries, such as Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, Cuba, China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, Syria and Venezuela. Any of theforegoing changes to the regulatory requirements could adversely impact our operational costs due to the administrative impacts of complying with these regulations and may limitthose with whom we conduct business. Any one or more of these sanctions, future sanctions, a change in laws or regulations, or a prohibition on shipment of our products ortransfer of our technology to signiﬁcant customers could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
The U.S. and other countries have levied tariﬀs and taxes on certain goods, implemented trade restrictions, and introduced national security protection policies. Trade tensionsbetween the U.S. and China, have continued to escalate from 2018 to present, and include the U.S. increasing tariﬀs on Chinese origin goods and China increasing tariﬀs on U.S.origin goods. Additionally, the U.S has imposed a baseline 10% tariﬀ on almost all imported goods globally. We previously took steps to mitigate the costs of these tariﬀs on ourbusiness by adjusting our operations and supply chain, but may be unable to mitigate the costs of additional tariﬀs, including those imposed in March and April of 2025. Althoughthese tariﬀ increases did not result in a material adverse impact on our operating costs in ﬁscal 2019 or ﬁscal 2020, they did reduce demand for our products during ﬁscal 2019 andﬁscal 2020. Increased tariﬀs on our customers' products could adversely impact their sales, and increased tariﬀs on our products in comparison to those of our competitors couldeach result in lower demand for our products. Further, governments may impose restrictions on the sale to certain customers of our products, or any applications containing ourproducts. For example, the Chinese government announced restrictions relating to sales of certain raw materials and to sales of products containing certain products made byMicron, and they may direct companies within China to purchase Chinese-made products. Similar restrictions on our products or the products of our customers or suppliers couldnegatively impact our business and ﬁnancial results. It is also possible that evolving U.S. export controls may encourage non-U.S. governments to request that our customerspurchase from companies not subject to U.S. export controls, thereby harming our business, market position, and ﬁnancial results. Excessive export controls increase the risk ofinvesting in U.S. advanced semiconductor products, because by the time a new product is ready for market, it may be subject to new unilateral export controls restricting its sale. Atthe same time, such controls may increase investment in foreign competitors, which would be less likely to be restricted by U.S. controls.
Further changes in trade or national security protection policy, tariﬀs, additional taxes, restrictions on exports or other trade barriers, including those taken against the U.S. inretaliation for U.S. policies, may limit our ability to obtain equipment, components or raw materials (including rare earth minerals), limit our ability to produce products, increase ourselling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, reduce our ability to sell products, or reduce our ability to have mergers andacquisitions approved by governmental agencies, any of which could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations or ﬁnancial conditions.
The outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns and existing tax disputes could have an adverse eﬀect on our results of operations.
We are subject to examination of our U.S. and certain foreign income tax returns for ﬁscal 2007 and later. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes of theseexaminations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from current or future examinations. Therecan be no assurance that the ﬁnal determination of any of these or any future examinations will not have an adverse eﬀect on our eﬀective tax rates, ﬁnancial position and results ofoperations.
In September 2021, we received a Statutory Notice of Deﬁciency (2007 to 2012 Notice) from the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for ﬁscal 2007 through ﬁscal 2012.The disputed amounts largely relate to transfer pricing matters. In
33
Table of Contents
December 2021, we ﬁled a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2007 to 2012 Notice. In September 2023, we received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) from the IRS for ﬁscal2013 and ﬁscal 2016. In October 2023, we received a Statutory Notice of Deﬁciency (2014 to 2015 Notice) from the IRS for ﬁscal 2014 and ﬁscal 2015. The disputed amounts for ﬁscal2013 to ﬁscal 2016 largely relate to transfer pricing matters. In December 2023, we ﬁled a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2014 to 2015 Notice.
In May 2023, we received a proposed income adjustment from the Malaysian Inland Revenue Board (IRB) for ﬁscal 2020. In December 2023, we received a Notice of Assessmentfrom the IRB asserting the same proposed income adjustment. In March 2025, we entered into a Consent Judgment before the High Court, agreeing that the dispute will be heardbefore the Special Commissioners of Income Tax (SCIT). It was also agreed that the payment on the taxes assessed is stayed and the IRB will pause all enforcement and proceedingsagainst the collection of the taxes assessed until the appeal before the SCIT is concluded. If the adjustment is upheld by the highest court that has jurisdiction over this matter inMalaysia, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $410.0 million. The disputed amounts largely relate to the characterization of certain assets. The timing of adjudicatingthis matter is uncertain but could occur in the next 12 months.
In January 2025, we received several assessments from the German Tax Authorities (GTA) regarding the German extraterritorial taxation of royalty payments betweennonresidents (referred to as oﬀshore receipts in respect of intangible property or ORIP) and intellectual property transfers by nonresidents (referred to as extraterritorial capital gainstaxation or ETT). If the assessment is upheld, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $92.0 million. The timing of adjudicating this matter is uncertain but could occur inthe next 12 months.
The ultimate outcome of disputes of this nature is uncertain, and if the IRS, IRB, and GTA were to prevail on their assertions, the assessed tax, penalties, and deﬁciency interestcould have a material adverse impact on our ﬁnancial position, results of operations or cash ﬂows.
Exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in the interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorableassessments from tax audits could aﬀect our eﬀective tax rates, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in many U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax obligations could be aﬀected by many factors, including changesto our operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies.
Our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective ﬁnancial period. Our future eﬀective tax rates, ﬁnancial condition and results fromoperations could be unfavorably aﬀected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations, including those thatalign with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base Erosion Proﬁt Shifting recommendations, or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in thejurisdictions in which we do business by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, changes in the geographic mix of our earnings among jurisdictions, challenges by taxauthorities to our tax positions and intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, failure to meet performance obligations with respect to tax incentive agreements, ﬂuctuations inforeign currency exchange rates, adverse resolution of audits and examinations of previously ﬁled tax returns.
Our business, ﬁnancial condition and operating results may be adversely impacted by policies implemented globally by the current or future administrations.
The U.S. and certain other global jurisdictions in which we operate, have taken and have threatened to take signiﬁcant legislative and policy changes in areas including but notlimited to tariﬀs, taxes and trade, labor, and the environment. If implemented, these changes could increase our eﬀective tax rate, decrease our revenue and increase our selling,general, administrative and/or manufacturing costs, which could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations or ﬁnancial conditions. Changes in tariﬀs, taxpolicy, trade regulations or other matters, and any uncertainty surrounding the scope or timing of such changes, could negatively impact the stock market, and reduce the tradingprice of our stock or otherwise impact our business. For example, in February 2022, the U.S. began implementing widescale sanctions against Russia due to Russia's invasion ofUkraine. Sanctions against Belarus and certain Ukrainian regions were later implemented. Because the actions by Russia against Ukraine are in conﬂict with our Guiding Values, wechose to cease shipments into Russia and Belarus, and we will continue to comply with applicable U.S. sanctions regarding Ukraine. While sales of our products into these regions,and to customers that sell into these regions, have been negatively impacted, at this time, we have not experienced a material adverse impact on our revenue. Retaliatory acts byRussia in response to the sanctions could include cyber-attacks, sanctions, or other actions that could disrupt the economy. As a result of the foregoing risks or similar risks,
34
Table of Contents
the imposition of sanctions could have a material adverse eﬀect on our business, results of operations or ﬁnancial condition.
New technology trends, such as AI and cyber resiliency and security requirements, require us and our customers to keep pace with evolving regulations and industry standards.In the U.S., the EU, and China, there are various current and proposed regulatory frameworks relating to the use of AI in products and services. We expect that the legal andregulatory environment relating to emerging technologies such as AI will continue to develop and impact both us and our customers. These changes could impact our internal useand development of AI, and could increase the cost of doing business, and create compliance risks and potential liability, all of which may have a material adverse eﬀect on ourﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to stringent environmental, climate change and other regulations, which may force us to incur signiﬁcant expenses and impact our operations.
We must comply with federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, emissions, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances used inour products and manufacturing processes, or that are the result of our manufacturing operations, such as greenhouse gases. We must also comply with rules and regulationsregarding limiting greenhouse gas emissions, public reporting of environmental metrics such as greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous substances, and obtain third-partyassurance of greenhouse gas reporting. Regulations could require us to change manufacturing processes, substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, obtain newpermits and undertake other costly activities.
Our failure to comply, or the failure of entities that we have acquired over time to have complied, with regulations could result in signiﬁcant ﬁnes, litigation or administrativeactions by regulators or others, liability for clean-up, criminal and civil liabilities, import/export restrictions, reduction or suspension of production, cessation of operations or futureliabilities. Restrictions on emissions could result in signiﬁcant costs such as the need for additional equipment, higher energy costs, carbon taxes, and emission cap and tradeprograms, and could also result in reduction or suspension of production, or even cessation of operations. Such regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in thefuture, to incur signiﬁcant expenses to comply with such regulations. Our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could not onlyimpact the health of our employees, customers and communities in which we operate, but could also impact our ability to operate. Such failure could also restrict our ability to shipcertain products to certain countries, require us to modify our products, shipping materials or logistics, or require us to incur other signiﬁcant costs and expenses. Environmental lawscontinue to expand with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances in electronic products and shipping materials. Future environmental regulations could require us toclose or reduce production at certain facilities, reengineer certain of our existing products and may prevent us or make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship ourproducts. For example, in Colorado, Regulation 27 requires companies operating in Colorado to signiﬁcantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a short timeframe. Because we havecontractual obligations to certain customers to assess the impact that manufacturing process changes may have on the products that we provide to such customers, we have to takea measured approach when implementing changes to our facilities, manufacturing processes, and manufacturing inputs. If we are unable to implement the necessary abatementplan, we may be required to ramp down our existing operations signiﬁcantly or risk noncompliance with the rule. The magnitude of the penalties that may be imposed for non-compliance is not currently known but could include signiﬁcant monetary penalties and orders to reduce or cease production.
In March 2022, the SEC proposed a rule entitled Enhancement and Standardization of Climate-Related Disclosures for Investors which it then adopted March 6, 2024. However,on April 4, 2024, the SEC announced that it was delaying the implementation of the rule pending challenge in the U.S. Eighth Circuit Court. While the rule is not yet implemented, if itwere to be implemented in its current form, we would incur signiﬁcant additional costs of compliance due to the need for expanded data collection, analysis, and certiﬁcation.
In addition, the number and complexity of laws and customer requirements focused on the energy eﬃciency of electronic products, the recycling of electronic products, thereduction of chemicals used in and to manufacture electronic products, and the reduction in the amount of packing materials and the increase in the required recycling of packingmaterials have expanded signiﬁcantly. It may be diﬃcult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may have insuﬃcient quantities of compliant products to meet customers'needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and proﬁtability. We may have to write oﬀ inventory if we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations. We expectthese risks to continue. These requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain.
35
Table of Contents
Sustained adverse climate change poses risks that could harm our results of operations.
Voluntary actions we may take or have taken as part of our ESG initiatives could require us to limit emissions, change manufacturing processes, substitute materials which maycost more or be less available, fund oﬀset projects, or undertake other costly activities. Voluntary restrictions on emissions could result in signiﬁcant costs such as the need foradditional equipment, higher energy costs, carbon taxes, and emission cap and trade programs. The cost of compliance with such voluntary eﬀorts could restrict our manufacturingoperations, increase our costs, and have an adverse eﬀect on our operating results.
Sustained adverse changes in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us due to the eﬀects of extreme weather and climate events on our production facilities,our supply chain and customers. Utility shortages, higher costs of utilities, and reduced availability of water could disrupt our operations as well as those of our customers andsuppliers. Certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, which some experts believe may become vulnerable to more frequent ﬁres, storms, severe ﬂoods anddroughts. While our business recovery plans are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other disruptive events, our plans may not protect us from all events. Customer demands and regulations related to conﬂict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses.
Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012, the SEC released investigation, and disclosure requirements regarding the use of"conﬂict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We have ﬁled a Form SD with the SEC regarding such matters annually since June 2, 2014.Other countries are considering similar regulations. If we cannot certify that our supply chain is free from the risk of irresponsible sourcing, customers and others may demand thatwe change the sourcing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant materials signiﬁcantly increases or availability is limited.  If we changematerials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity, delivery times and quality could be negatively impacted.  Ourrelationships with customers, suppliers and stockholders may be adversely aﬀected if we are unable to certify that our products are free from the risk of irresponsible sourcing. Wehave incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source ofany conﬂict minerals used in our products.  We may be unable to satisfy those that require that all of the components of our products be certiﬁed as conﬂict free in a materiallydiﬀerent manner than advocated by the Responsible Minerals Initiative or the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  If we are unable to meet customerrequirements, customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in a permanent or temporary loss of sales to such customer or a reduction in purchases from us, and we may haveto write oﬀ inventory if it cannot be sold.
In addition to concerns over “conﬂict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo, our customers may require that other minerals and substances used within oursupply chain be evaluated and reported on. An increase in reporting obligations will increase associated operating costs. This could have negative eﬀects on our overall operatingproﬁts.
Failure to meet ESG expectations, standards or disclosure requirements or achieve our corporate responsibility goals, could adversely aﬀect our business, results ofoperations, ﬁnancial condition, or stock price.
In recent years, there has been an increased focus on corporate responsibility matters, including greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related risks, renewable energy, waterstewardship, waste management, data privacy, cybersecurity, trade controls, diversity, equality and inclusion, responsible sourcing and supply chain, use of products for illegal orunethical purposes, human rights, and social responsibility. We are committed to corporate responsibility and actively manage these issues in accordance with applicable law andincluding through our guiding values and our internal policies. As an example, since we do not support the actions of Russia against Ukraine, in March 2022 we stopped sellingproducts to customers and distributors located in Russia and Belarus. However, we have been made aware that there are entities in Russia that indirectly obtained our products afterMarch 2022 despite the preventative measures we took and continue to take. Though we continue to improve our processes and procedures to prevent the unauthorized ﬂow of ourproducts, our actions have not been fully successful. We operate in an extensive, ever-changing global supply chain, an expectation of complete traceability of standardsemiconductor products to every end use and prevention of product misuse and diversion is unachievable. Thus, despite our eﬀorts, our products may be used for illegal orobjectionable applications and third parties may engage in conduct
36
Table of Contents
that we do not support or condone.
Also, we have publicly announced environmental goals including those related to greenhouse gas emissions reduction, achieving net zero carbon emissions and renewableenergy usage, which we may reﬁne or expand further in the future. These goals reﬂect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them.These goals could expose us to heightened scrutiny and ﬁnancial, legal, reputational, operational, compliance, and other risks, including lost customer opportunities, which couldnegatively impact us. Further, any failure to set or achieve corporate responsibility initiatives that meet our stakeholders' evolving expectations could also negatively impact us.
In addition, we are or expect to become subject to various new or proposed climate-related and other sustainability laws and regulations, including, for example, the state ofCalifornia's new climate change disclosure requirements, the EU's new Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and climate-change disclosure requirements from the SEC.Compliance with such laws and regulations, as well as the overall increased focus and scrutiny from the SEC and other regulators, investors, customers, vendors, employees, andother stakeholders concerning ESG and climate matters, could impose additional costs on us and expose us to new risks, including resulting in changes to our current ESG goals.
Evolving stakeholder expectations, voluntary and required reporting regimes that are not harmonized and continue to change, and our eﬀorts to manage these issues, report onthem, and accomplish our goals, present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, ﬁnancial, legal, and other risks, any of which could have a material adverse impact, includingon our reputation and stock price. It is also possible that government, customers, investors and other stakeholders might not be satisﬁed with our policies, programs, goals,performance and related disclosures, or the speed of their adoption, implementation and measurable success, or that we have adopted such policies, programs and commitments.
Such risks and uncertainties include:
• reputational harm, including damage to our relationship with customers, supplies, investors, governments, or other stakeholders;• we may lose customers who choose not to do business with us, or we may choose to discontinue or restrict business with certain customers due to our policies;• liabilities or penalties associated with inadequate processes to collect, audit, or disclose information;• adverse impacts on our ability to sell and manufacture products;• increased risk of litigation, investigations, or regulatory enforcement action;• unfavorable ESG ratings or investor sentiment;• diversion of resources and increased costs to control, assess, and report on ESG metrics;• our ability to achieve our goals within announced timeframes;• increased costs and resources to monitor, report and achieve our goals;• unforeseen operational and technological diﬃculties;• access to and increased cost of capital; and• adverse impacts on our stock price.
Any failure, or perceived failure, to meet evolving stakeholder expectations or industry standards, or achieve our corporate responsibility goals could have an adverse eﬀect onour business, results of operations, ﬁnancial condition, reputation, or stock price.
Risks Related to Capitalization and Financial Markets
The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide ﬂuctuations in response to a variety of factors.
The market price of our common stock has ﬂuctuated signiﬁcantly in the recent past and is likely to ﬂuctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock couldbe subject to wide ﬂuctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:
• global economic and ﬁnancial uncertainty due to changes in tariﬀs, interest rates, persistent inﬂation, instability in the banking sector, war or other conﬂicts, publichealth concerns or other factors;• political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions;• quarterly variations in our operating results, ﬁnancial condition, including our liquidity, or the operating results of other technology companies;• changes in our ﬁnancial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance;
37
Table of Contents
• changes in analysts' estimates of our ﬁnancial performance or buy/sell recommendations;• general conditions in the semiconductor industry;• the amount and timing of repurchases of shares of our common stock;• our ability to realize the expected beneﬁts of our completed or future acquisitions;• announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; and• actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors.
In addition, the stock market has recently and in the past experienced signiﬁcant price and volume ﬂuctuations that have aﬀected the market prices for many companies andthat often have been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market ﬂuctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our commonstock. The foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares to decline or ﬂuctuate substantially. In the past,following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the target of securities class action litigation. If we are sued in a securities class action, we could incursubstantial costs, and it could divert management's attention and resources and have an adverse impact on our ﬁnancial performance and the price of our common stock or Series APreferred Stock.
The amount and timing of our share repurchases may ﬂuctuate in response to a variety of factors.
The amount, timing, and execution of repurchases of shares of our common stock may ﬂuctuate based on the share price of our common stock, general business and marketconditions, tax regulations impacting share repurchases and other factors including our operating results, level of cash ﬂow, capital expenditures and dividend payments. Althoughour Board of Directors has authorized share repurchases of up to $4.00 billion, of which $1.56 billion is still available, the authorization does not obligate us to acquire any particularamount of shares. We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase authorization will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. The repurchaseauthorization may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion and may aﬀect the trading price of our common stock and increase volatility. We did not repurchaseany shares in the March 2025 quarter.
Our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if we do not eﬀectively manage or reﬁnance our current or future debt.
As of March 31, 2025, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $5.66 billion. At March 31, 2025, we had no outstanding borrowings under our Revolving CreditFacility which provides up to $2.25 billion of revolving loan commitments that terminate in 2030 and $175.0 million in outstanding principal amount of our Commercial Paper. AtMarch 31, 2025, we had $4.20 billion in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes and $1.29 billion in aggregate principal of Convertible Debt outstanding.
With respect to such balance of Senior Notes, our 4.250% 2025 Notes in the principal amount of $1.20 billion matures on September 1, 2025, and we intend to ﬁnance therepayment of such notes using available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or our Commercial Paper program. Since interest rates have increased since we issued our4.250% 2025 Notes, we expect our interest expense will increase if we reﬁnance such notes using our Revolving Credit Facility or our Commercial Paper Program or otherinstruments. Also, if we reﬁnance such ﬁxed rate notes with variable rate debt, changes in interest rates will have a more signiﬁcant impact on our interest expense in future periods.There can be no assurance that we will be able to reﬁnance our current or future debt on reasonable terms, if at all.
Servicing our debt requires a signiﬁcant amount of cash, we may not have suﬃcient cash to fund payments and adverse changes in our credit ratings could increase ourborrowing costs and adversely aﬀect our ability to access the debt markets.
Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, interest, or to reﬁnance our indebtedness, including our outstanding Senior Notes, Convertible Debt, and CommercialPaper, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, competitive and other factors. Our business may not continue to generate suﬃcient cash ﬂow to serviceour debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions. If we are unable to generate such cash ﬂow, we may be required to undertakealternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on onerous or highly dilutive terms. Recently, we have used borrowings to ﬁnance aportion of our quarterly dividend payments and we may continue to do so in future periods. Our ability to reﬁnance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and ourﬁnancial condition at such time. Our Senior Notes and Commercial Paper are rated by certain major credit rating agencies. These credit ratings impact our cost of borrowing and ourability to access the capital markets and are based on our ﬁnancial performance and ﬁnancial metrics including debt levels. While we have maintained our investment grade rating,we were recently downgraded by one rating agency and there is no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. A
38
Table of Contents
downgrade of our credit rating by a major credit rating agency could result in increased borrowing costs and could adversely aﬀect our ability to access the debt markets to reﬁnanceour existing debt or ﬁnance future debt. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely aﬀect our ability to take advantage of opportunities and could adversely aﬀectour ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
Conversion of our Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares, or the payment of dividends on Series A Preferred Stock in shares of common stock, willdilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders.
The conversion of some or all of our shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares, the payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock in the form of commonstock or the conversion of our outstanding Convertible Debt will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion ofsuch debt. Following our irrevocable settlement election made on April 1, 2022, upon conversion, we are required to satisfy our conversion obligation with respect to such convertedConvertible Debt by delivering cash equal to the principal amount of such converted Convertible Debt and cash and shares of common stock or any combination, at our option, withrespect to any conversion value in excess thereof (i.e., the conversion spread). There would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation forthe cash settled portion of the Convertible Debt as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. The conversion spread will be included in the denominator forthe computation of diluted net income per common share. Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our Convertible Debt, Series A PreferredStock or Depositary Shares or the payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock in the form of common stock could adversely aﬀect prevailing market prices of our commonstock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion ofthe Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares, as applicable, could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Convertible Debt, Series APreferred Stock or Depositary Shares into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.
The Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares may adversely aﬀect the market price of our common stock.
The market price of our common stock is likely to be inﬂuenced by the Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares. The market price of our common stockcould become more volatile and could be depressed by: (1) investors’ anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional shares of common stockreceived upon conversion of the Convertible Debt, Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares; (2) possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Series A PreferredStock or Depositary Shares as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning shares of common stock; and (3) hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expectto develop involving the Series A Preferred Stock or Depositary Shares and our common stock.
Our common stock ranks junior to our Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution.
Our common stock ranks junior to our Series A Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation, winding-up ordissolution. This means that, unless accumulated dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock through the most recentlycompleted dividend period, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock subject to limited exceptions. Likewise, in the event of our voluntary or involuntaryliquidation, winding-up or dissolution, no distribution of our assets may be made to holders of our common stock until we have paid to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock aliquidation preference equal to $1,000 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends.
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results.
We use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the eﬀect of exchange rate ﬂuctuations on our non-U.S. dollar netbalance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar signiﬁcantly ﬂuctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of ournon-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse eﬀect on our results of operations and ﬁnancial condition. In particular, in periods when the value of a non-U.S. currencysigniﬁcantly declines relative to the U.S. dollar, customers transacting in that currency may be unable to fulﬁll their contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to makepayments or purchase products. In periods when the U.S. dollar declines signiﬁcantly relative to the British pound, Euro, Thai baht and Taiwan dollar, the operational costs in ourEuropean and Thailand subsidiaries are adversely aﬀected. Although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by recent changes in the value of the U.S. dollar, therecan be no assurance as to the future
39
Table of Contents
impact that any weakness or strength in the U.S. dollar will have on our business or results of operations.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staﬀ Comments None.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
Cyber Risk Governance
Risk Management and Strategy
We deﬁne cyber risk governance as a program of measures designed to protect our IT assets and information from unauthorized access, attacks or service disruptions. Our riskgovernance processes were designed by our IT Shared Services (ITSS) team, which maintains knowledge about the types of high-proﬁle security breaches being reported morefrequently across the globe. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of sensitive data, including conﬁdential and other proprietary information about our business andour employees, and information belonging to our customers, suppliers, and business partners, is important to our operations and business strategy. As a result, cybersecurity anddata protection are key components of our long-term business strategies.
We use various processes to inform our assessment, identiﬁcation and management of risk from cybersecurity threats. Key areas of our cybersecurity risk managementprocesses and strategy currently include:
Processes and Coordination
We manage cyber security and assess associated risks in these ways:
• ITSS, led by our Chief Information Security Oﬃcer (CISO), has ﬁrst-line responsibility for our cybersecurity risk management processes, and works to coordinate eﬀorts,priorities and oversight of cybersecurity risk;• ITSS works with functional groups such as manufacturing, business operations, engineering, human resources, legal, and ﬁnance and is responsible for evaluating andassessing overall cybersecurity risk, and advising senior management and the Audit Committee regarding our cybersecurity risk proﬁle and priorities as they evolve;• we have established policies and processes for assessing, identifying, and managing material risk from cybersecurity threats, and have integrated these processes into ouroverall risk management systems and processes; and• our Internal Audit group monitors certain IT systems controls that are integrated into our larger Sarbanes-Oxley control environment.
Ongoing Evaluation and Assessment of Systems and Processes
We take steps to monitor evolving regulatory, industry and legal requirements and best practices relating to cyber risk mitigation, and we employ standards and frameworks thatwe deem appropriate to address identiﬁed risks. In addition to periodic in-depth evaluations of our applicable systems and processes, we monitor our IT systems and processes on anongoing basis with the goal of identifying and remediating real and potential threats as they arise. We adjust our systems, procedures, and policies as we deem necessary and inresponse to identiﬁed threats and risks. For example, ITSS has implemented improvements to our protective measures that have included, but have not been limited to: endpointintrusion detection and response software, vulnerability scans, regular patching of vulnerabilities, evaluating and reviewing log monitors, event correlation tools, networksegmentation, system audits, data partitioning, privileged account segregation and monitoring, and tabletop exercises.
Security Awareness Program to Train and Test Personnel
We sponsor a multi-faceted security awareness program that includes regular, mandatory trainings for our personnel on best practices for cyber-hygiene including: multifactorauthentication and single sign-on use for cloud applications; ways to identify social engineering techniques, policy and process awareness, periodic phishing simulations and otherpreparedness testing.
40
Table of Contents
Cyber Incident Response Plan
We maintain a cross-functional cyber incident response plan with deﬁned roles and responsibilities and reporting protocols. This plan focuses on responding to, identifying theseverity of, and recovering from a breach as well as mitigating any impact to our business. Generally, when a suspected breach is identiﬁed, the ITSS team will escalate the issue tothe personnel identiﬁed in the plan for initial analysis and guidance. In the event of an actual breach, the CISO will prepare an initial assessment and consult with our general counsel(GC) and our Chief Financial Oﬃcer (CFO). Together, our GC, CFO and CISO will consult with other executives, including our Chief Executive Oﬃcer and our Chief Operating Oﬃcer, todetermine the incident’s impact to our business. This management group (in consultation with outside experts) will be responsible for determining whether a particular incident(alone or in combination with other factors) triggers any public reporting or third-party notiﬁcation requirements.
Regular Evaluation of Initiatives, Results and Priorities
The ITSS team, in consultation with members of senior management, updates its strategy at least annually to account for changes in our business strategy, legal and regulatorydevelopments across our geographic footprint, results of recent ITSS initiatives, and developments in the cybersecurity threat landscape. On an annual basis the CISO updates theAudit Committee (generally with all other Board members in attendance) on the performance of cyber risk key performance indicators (KPIs), cyber risks, staﬃng and key ITSSinitiatives. On a quarterly basis the CISO updates the Audit Committee (generally with all other Board members in attendance) on the KPIs and any changes to our cyber riskmitigation eﬀorts, and any cyber breaches that may have occurred. Feedback from the Audit Committee and senior management assists us in determining whether any furtherchanges to our existing policies and practices are warranted. We expect that our cybersecurity risk management processes and strategy will continue to adapt as the cybersecuritythreat landscape evolves. We engage third parties to assist us with our cybersecurity risk management and strategy. Some of these third parties provide us with ongoing assistance(such as threat monitoring, mitigation strategies, updates on emerging trends and developments and policy guidance) while others provide targeted assistance (such as security andforensic expertise) as needed.
Review of Third Parties
There are risks associated with sharing information with third parties, and with allowing third parties to access our systems. Therefore, prior to integrating any third-partyprovider’s information into our systems, we assess their security maturity against our standards, assess business risks associated with integration and request changes as we deemnecessary.
Governance
Consistent with our overall risk management governance structure, management is responsible for the day-to-day management of cybersecurity risk while our Board and itsAudit Committee play an active, ongoing oversight role.
Board Oversight
Our Board has delegated to its Audit Committee speciﬁc, ﬁrst-line responsibility for overseeing major cybersecurity risk exposures in addition to our broader enterprise riskmanagement program. Speciﬁcally, under its charter, the Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring enterprise risk management, privacy, cybersecurity and datasecurity matters, including the potential impact of those exposures on Microchip’s business, ﬁnancial results, operations and reputation, and the steps management has taken tomonitor and mitigate such exposures. The CISO reports at least quarterly to the Audit Committee on information security and data privacy and protection. These presentationsaddress a wide range of topics, including trends in cyber threats and the status of initiatives designed to bolster our security systems. Our full Board is typically in attendance at thesepresentations made to the Audit Committee. At least annually, the Board meets with members of our senior management team to review and discuss our enterprise riskmanagement program, including areas of material risk and how these risks, which may include cybersecurity risk, are being managed and reported to the Board and its committees.
Management’s Role
Our ITSS team is led by our CISO, who reports to our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Oﬃcer. Our CISO is a former CPA that has 35 years of experience in leadingglobal accounting and business information systems groups including strategy, applications, infrastructure, information security, support, and execution.
41
Table of Contents
Digital security at Microchip is the primary responsibility of our ITSS team. Our ITSS team is responsible for infrastructure services and business continuity as it relates to digitalinformation. The ITSS team oversees compliance with our cybersecurity framework within our Company and facilitates cybersecurity risk management activities. The ITSS team alsoassists with the review and approval of policies, completes benchmarking against applicable standards and oversees the security awareness training program. ITSS works to addressand respond to cyber risk, including cyber risks related to security architecture and engineering, identity and access management and security operations. Collectively, ITSS hasdecades of relevant education and experience and maintain a wide range of industry certiﬁcations. We invest in regular, ongoing cybersecurity and architecture training for our teammembers.
Conclusion
As of March 31, 2025, we have not identiﬁed any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of previous cybersecurity incidents that have materially aﬀectedMicrochip, our business strategy, our results of operations or our ﬁnancial condition. For a discussion of risks from cybersecurity threats that could be reasonably likely to materiallyaﬀect us, please see our Risk Factors discussion under the heading, “We continue to be the target of attacks on our IT systems. Interruptions in and unauthorized access to our ITsystems, and security breaches or incidents impacting our systems or data that we or our service providers maintain or otherwise process, could adversely aﬀect our business”, in thisAnnual Report on Form 10-K.
42
Table of Contents
Item 2. Properties At March 31, 2025, we owned and used the facilities described below:
Location ApproximateTotal Sq. Ft. Principal Operations
Gresham, Oregon 826,500 Wafer fabrication (Fab 4), R&D center, warehousing and administrative oﬃces
Chandler, Arizona 720,000 Executive and administrative oﬃces, wafer probe, R&D center, sales and marketing, and computer and servicefunctionsLamesa, Calamba, Philippines 610,300 Assembly and test, warehousing and administrative oﬃcesChacherngsao, Thailand 498,100 Assembly and test, wafer probe, sample center, warehousing and administrative oﬃcesColorado Springs, Colorado 480,000 Wafer fabrication (Fab 5), test and R&DCanlubang, Calamba, Philippines 460,000 Wafer probe, test, warehousing and administrative oﬃcesTempe, Arizona 388,100 Wafer fabrication (Fab 2), R&D center, warehousing and administrative oﬃcesBangalore, India 294,000 R&D center, sales and marketing support and administrative oﬃcesChacherngsao, Thailand 287,300 Assembly and test, warehousing and administrative oﬃcesChennai, India 187,000 R&D centerHyderabad, India 167,554 Design and engineeringLawrence, Massachusetts 160,000 Manufacturing and administrative oﬃcesRousset, France 144,500 Test, R&D and administrative oﬃcesMount Holly Springs, Pennsylvania 100,000 Manufacturing, R&D and administrative oﬃcesGarden Grove, California 98,100 Manufacturing, R&D and administrative oﬃcesSan Jose, California 98,000 R&D and administrative oﬃcesNeckarbischofsheim, Germany 83,800 Manufacturing and administrative oﬃcesNantes, France 77,000 Wafer probe, test, R&D, warehousing and administrative oﬃcesSan Jose, California 71,000 R&D and administrative oﬃcesSan Jose, California 57,000 R&D and administrative oﬃcesBeverly, Massachusetts 52,100 ManufacturingHeilbronn, Germany 48,000 R&D and administrative oﬃcesKarlsruhe, Germany 46,000 R&D and administrative oﬃcesEnnis County, Ireland 40,000 Manufacturing, R&D and administrative oﬃcesSimsbury, Connecticut 32,500 Manufacturing, R&D and administrative oﬃcesShanghai, China 21,000 R&D, sales and marketing and administrative oﬃcesHsinchu, Taiwan 15,000 R&D and administrative oﬃces
 Our Fab 2 wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona is classiﬁed as held for sale as of March 31, 2025.
In addition to the facilities we own, we lease several manufacturing, research and development facilities and sales oﬃces in North America, Europe and Asia.
We currently believe that our existing facilities are suitable and will be adequate to meet our requirements for at least the next 12 months. Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Refer to "Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies" to our consolidated ﬁnancial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
(1)
(1)
43
Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "MCHP."
Stock Price Performance Graph The following graph and table show a comparison of the ﬁve-year cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend reinvestment basis, for Microchip TechnologyIncorporated, the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Stock Index, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.
Comparison of 5 year Cumulative Total Return*
*$100 invested on March 31, 2020 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividendsFiscal year ending March 31.
Copyright © 2025 Standard & Poor's, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved.
Cumulative Total Return
March2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025Microchip Technology Incorporated 100.00 231.89 227.33 257.73 281.73 155.82S&P 500 Stock Index 100.00 156.35 180.81 166.84 216.69 234.58Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 100.00 209.98 233.18 233.07 342.64 301.01
Data acquired by Research Data Group, Inc. (www.researchdatagroup.com)
The information in this Form 10-K appearing under the heading "Stock Price Performance Graph" is being "furnished" pursuant to Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K and shall not bedeemed to be "soliciting material" or "ﬁled" with the SEC or subject
44
Table of Contents
to Regulation 14A or 14C, other than as provided in Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act except to the extent that we speciﬁcallyrequest that it be treated as such.
On May 15, 2025, there were approximately 541 holders of record of our common stock.  This ﬁgure does not reﬂect beneﬁcial ownership of shares held in nominee names.
For a description of our dividend policies, see Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and CapitalResources," included herein. Refer to "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneﬁcial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters," at page 62 below, for the information required by Item201(d) of Regulation S-K with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2025.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
Item 6. [Reserved] 
45
Table of Contents
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements
This report, including "Item 1. Business," "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," containscertain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, ﬁnancial performance and revenue sources.  We use words suchas "anticipate," "believe," "can," "continue," "could," "expect," "future," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.  Our actual results coulddiﬀer materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Risk Factors," beginning at page 13 andelsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Although we believe that the expectations reﬂected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels ofactivity, performance or achievements.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  We disclaim any obligation to update information contained inany forward-looking statement.  These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:
• Our expectation that we will experience period-to-period ﬂuctuations in operating results, gross margins, product mix and average gross proﬁt per unit;• The eﬀects that uncertain global economic conditions and ﬂuctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our ﬁnancial condition and results ofoperations;• The eﬀects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines and modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines;• Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;• The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;• The impact of national security protections, trade restrictions and changes in tariﬀs, including those impacting China;• Our intent to vigorously defend our legal positions and our expectations of the impact of litigation on our operations;• The future impact on our business in response to public health concerns;• Our goal to continue to be more eﬃcient with our selling, general and administrative expenses;• Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and our use of distributors as an eﬀective supply channel;• Our belief that familiarity with and adoption of development tools from us and from our third-party development tool partners will be an important factor in the futureselection of our embedded control products;• The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;• The possibility of future pricing ﬂuctuations in our analog product line;• The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;• Our ability to eﬀectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels;• Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;• The maintenance of our competitive position based on our investments in new and enhanced products;• The cost eﬀectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;• Our plans to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities;• Our expectations regarding investments in equipment and facilities and the timeline of expansions of our manufacturing capacity;• The continued development of the embedded control market based on our strong technical service presence;• Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;• The possibility that loss of, or disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales and/or increase our inventory returns;• Our intent, including length, timing, planned closure days, to reduce production levels at global fabrication facilities, or closure of facilities completely and its impact oninventory levels and estimated cash savings;• Our expectations regarding LTSAs and the realization of deferred revenue;• The continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;• The suﬃciency of our existing sources of liquidity to ﬁnance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the eﬀectsthat our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;• Our belief that the capital expenditures to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide suﬃcient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our productioncapabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the production requirements that are currently outsourced;• Our belief that our IT system compromise will not have a material adverse eﬀect on our business or result in any material damage to us;
46
Table of Contents
• Our expectation that we will continue to be the target of cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access and other attempts to breach or otherwise compromisethe security of our IT systems and data;• Our plans to modify and enhance our cybersecurity risk management processes and strategy;• The impact of the resolution of legal actions on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;• The amounts and timing, and our plans and expectations relating to the U.S. Statutory Notice of Deﬁciencies and proposed income adjustment from the MalaysianInland Revenue Board;• Our expectation regarding the treatment of our unrecognized tax beneﬁts in the next 12 months;• Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our eﬀective tax rate;• Our expectations regarding our tax expense, cash taxes and eﬀective tax rate;• Our expectation that the global minimum tax (GMT) will not have a material impact on our ﬁscal 2026 results;• Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated ﬁnancial statements are reasonable;• Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;• Our ability to obtain and maintain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the eﬀects of litigation or other disputes or the loss of patent protection;• The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims or indemniﬁcation claims;• The eﬀect of ﬂuctuations in market interest rates on our income and/or cash ﬂows;• The eﬀect of ﬂuctuations in currency rates;• The impact of inﬂation on our business;• Our ability to increase our borrowings or seek additional equity or debt ﬁnancing to maintain or expand our facilities, or to fund cash dividends, share repurchases,acquisitions or other corporate activities, and that the timing and amount of such ﬁnancing requirements will depend on a number of factors;• Our expected debt obligation maturities, including the conversion of debt, Depositary Shares, and Series A Preferred Stock, and plans to reﬁnance our existing debt;• Our expectations regarding the amounts and timing of repurchases under our stock repurchase program;• Our expectation that our reliance on third-party contractors may increase over time as our business grows;• Our ability to collect accounts receivable;• The impact of the legislative and policy changes implemented or which may be implemented by the current administration on our business and the trading price of ourstock;• Our belief that our culture, values, and organizational development and training programs will continue to provide a work environment where our employees areempowered and engaged to deliver the best embedded control solutions;• Our belief that our continued success is driven by the skills, knowledge, and innovative capabilities of our personnel, a strong technical service presence, and our abilityto rapidly commercialize new and enhanced products;• The potential impact of changes in regulations or in their enforcement, including with respect to the capital expenditures or other costs or expenses;• The impact of any failure by use to adequately control the storage, use, discharge and disposal of regulated substances;• Estimates and plans regarding pension liability and payments expected to be made for beneﬁts earned;• Our expectations regarding the amount, timing, and future applications for investment tax credits under the CHIPS Act;• Our expectations regarding past or potential future acquisitions, joint development agreements or other strategic relationships and any related beneﬁts; and• The impact on our business stemming from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
Our actual results could diﬀer materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A. RiskFactors," and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Although we believe that the expectations reﬂected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee futureresults, levels of activity, performance or achievements.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  We disclaim any obligation to update theinformation contained in any forward-looking statement.
47
Table of Contents
Introduction
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document, as well as withother sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." For an overview of our business and recent trends, refer to our"Business and Macroeconomic Environment" discussed below.
We begin our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a discussion of our Business and MacroeconomicEnvironment followed by the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reportedﬁnancial results.  We then discuss our results of operations for ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024, followed by an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash ﬂows, anddiscuss our ﬁnancial commitments in the section titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our liquidity and capital resources section generally discusses ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal2024. For our discussion of our ﬁscal 2024 results compared to ﬁscal 2023 for both our results of operations and our liquidity and capital resources sections, refer to "Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2024 ﬁled with theSEC on May 23, 2024 which is incorporated by reference herein.
Business and Macroeconomic Environment
During ﬁscal 2024, many of our customers felt the adverse eﬀects of slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inﬂation and higher interest rates andwe received requests to push out or cancel backlog resulting from customer actions to reduce inventory levels. Although we began to see evidence of improvements in our businessin the March 2024 quarter which have continued in ﬁscal 2025, such as a decrease in customer requests to push out or cancel backlog while the number of expedites and shipmentpull in requests grew, the overall macroeconomic environment remained weak throughout ﬁscal 2025 as we navigated through a large inventory correction. With our inventory levelsbeing high and having ample capacity in place, on December 2, 2024, we announced our decision to close our Tempe, Arizona wafer fabrication facility that we refer to as Fab 2.Many of the process technologies that run in Fab 2 also run in our Oregon and Colorado factories, which both have ample clean room space for expansion. The closure of Fab 2 wascompleted in May 2025 and we expect that it will generate annual cash savings of approximately $90 million. Due to the high levels of inventory of the products which aremanufactured in Fab 2, we do not expect to see income statement savings from the closure until the start of the June 2026 quarter based on a ﬁrst-in ﬁrst-out basis. We expect thatthe Fab 2 closure will begin to help us moderate our inventory levels. On March 3, 2025, we announced additional restructuring actions to reduce costs, resize manufacturingoperations and to reduce headcount at our Fab 4 and Fab 5 facilities and our backend manufacturing facility in the Philippines which will result in approximately $25 million in annualsavings from the temporarily reduced compensation costs. These actions resulted in a reduction of inventory in the March 2025 quarter. We also announced a 10% headcountreduction across our company to decrease our operating expenses, which reduction will be fully implemented by the June 2025 quarter. We expect this action to reduce our ongoingoperating expenses by approximately $90 million to $100 million on an annualized basis. Consistent with the macroeconomic environment, most of our factory expansion activityremains paused, we have reduced our planned capital investments, and we remain focused on reducing our inventory levels and days of inventory through ﬁscal 2026.
There continues to be uncertainty regarding overall macroeconomic conditions, including increased geopolitical tensions, risk of a recession, and the eﬀects of potential tradepolicies, including tariﬀs. Long established global trade relationships are potentially changing in fundamental ways that make it diﬃcult to predict how global supply chains andeconomic environments will be aﬀected. For example, in March and April 2025, the U.S. imposed tariﬀs on imports from China and other countries and foreign governments imposedadditional tariﬀs on imports from the U.S. It is unclear what tariﬀs will apply to semiconductors during this time of change.
While we continue to evaluate the potential impacts of these proposed tariﬀs and our ability to mitigate their related impacts, these tariﬀs and any retaliatory tariﬀs imposedmay adversely impact our revenue and cost of goods sold in the U.S. and internationally. The imposition of tariﬀs could impact our supply chain for rare earth and other materials andcause a decrease in the sales of products to customers located in China, other customers selling to Chinese end users, or other global customers, which could materially andadversely aﬀect our business, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. The ultimate impact of any tariﬀs will depend on various factors, including whether semiconductorscontinue to be exempt from tariﬀs and any changes to the amount, scope and nature of the tariﬀs imposed by the U.S. or other countries. For additional information, see “Item 1A.Risk Factors”, including the risk factor titled “We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs, increase prices,are impacted by increases in tariﬀs, or such raw materials, components or equipment become restricted or unavailable."
48
Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
General 
Our discussion and analysis of our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated ﬁnancial statements, which have been prepared in accordancewith U.S. GAAP.  We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our ﬁnancial results on a regular basis.  The preparation of these ﬁnancial statements requires us to makeestimates and judgments that aﬀect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities.  On an ongoing basis, weevaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income taxes and contingencies.  We base our estimates on historical experience and on variousother assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets andliabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Our results may diﬀer from these estimates due to actual outcomes being diﬀerent from those on which we based ourassumptions.  We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.  We believe the following critical accounting policies aﬀect our more signiﬁcant judgments andestimates used in the preparation of our consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Revenue Recognition
We generate revenue primarily from sales of our semiconductor products to distributors and non-distributor customers (direct customers). We apply the following ﬁve-stepapproach to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognition: (i) identify the contract with the customer, (ii) identify performance obligations in the contract, (iii) determinethe transaction price, (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (v) recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisﬁed.
Sales of semiconductor products to our customers are governed by a purchase order, an order acknowledgment, and a distributor agreement in the case of our distributorcustomers. Sales to customers do not meet the deﬁnition of a contract until the customer has sent in a purchase order, we have acknowledged the order, we have deemed thecollectability of the consideration to be probable, and legally enforceable rights and obligations have been created. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we oﬀer priceconcessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors. As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitledusing recent historical data and applying the expected value method. Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with customers is recognized at, or near to, the timerisk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer, which is generally upon shipment.
Overall, our estimates of adjustments to contract price due to variable consideration under our contracts with distributor customers, based on our assumptions, have beenmaterially consistent with our actual results. However, these estimates are subject to management’s judgment and actual provisions could be diﬀerent from our estimates, resultingin future adjustments to our revenue and operating results. A 100-basis point increase in the blended price concession rate would have changed the measurement of our refundliability recorded within accrued liabilities by $5.0 million as of March 31, 2025.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out method.  We record a charge to cost of sales to write down our inventory forestimated excess, obsolete or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the diﬀerence between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based uponassumptions about future demand and market conditions.  If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increasedcarrying amounts are recoverable. In determining whether there is a risk of excess or obsolete inventory, we evaluate projected demand over periods that align with demandforecasts used to develop manufacturing plans and inventory build decisions and write down inventory on hand that is in excess of estimated demand. Management reviews andadjusts the estimates as appropriate based on speciﬁc situations. For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of futuredemand. Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued. A 1% variance in the estimated demand for ourproducts would have changed the estimated net realizable value of our inventory by approximately $3.8 million as of March 31, 2025. 
49
Table of Contents
Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated ﬁnancial statements, we are required to record our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business may scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses.  Companies of our size andcomplexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct signiﬁcant operations.  We are currently being audited by the tax authorities inthe U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be. We record beneﬁts for uncertain tax positions based on anassessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law. If this threshold is not met, notax beneﬁt of the uncertain tax position is recognized. If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax beneﬁt that is more than 50% likely to be realized uponultimate settlement.  
The accounting model related to the measurement of uncertain tax positions requires us to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority thathas full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of oﬀset or aggregation with other positions.  Therecognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where wehave a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or overlooking an issue.  We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information orfacts related to the position are identiﬁed in a subsequent period.  Generally, adjustments to the positions are recorded through the income statement.  Generally, adjustments willbe recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the closing of a statutory audit period orchanges in applicable law, or interactions with taxing authorities.  Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process, including the complexity involved to interpret and applytax laws, and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the ﬁnancial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition maysigniﬁcantly diﬀer from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024:
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 %Cost of sales 43.9 34.6 Gross proﬁt 56.1 65.4 
Research and development 22.4 14.4 Selling, general and administrative 14.0 9.6 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 11.2 7.9 Special charges (income) and other, net 1.8 (0.2)
Operating income 6.7 % 33.7 %
Net Sales We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of ourSuperFlash and other technologies.  We sell our products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generallyrequire no collateral.  In certain circumstances, a customer's ﬁnancial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided in the form ofletters of credit.
The following table summarizes our net sales for ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024 (dollars in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
2025 2024 ChangeNet sales $ 4,401.6 $ 7,634.4 (42.3)%
50
Table of Contents
The decrease in net sales in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024 was primarily due to adverse economic conditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing businessuncertainty, persistent inﬂation, high interest rates, and shorter product lead times, which factors resulted in many customers having higher levels of inventory and delaying orreducing orders. Due to the size, complexity and diversity of our customer base, we are not able to quantify any material factor contributing to the changes in net sales. See our"Business and Macroeconomic Environment" discussion above for further information on our business outlook.
Other factors that we believe contributed to the decrease in our reported net sales for ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024 and which are drivers of long-term trends in our netsales but which factors we are not able to quantify include:
• economic and competitive conditions in the semiconductor industry;• our various new product oﬀerings that have increased our served available market;• customers’ needs for the ﬂexibility oﬀered by our programmable solutions;• increasing semiconductor content in our customers’ products; and• geopolitical conditions, tariﬀs and other trade restrictions.
We sell a large number of products to a large and diverse customer base and there was not any single product or customer that accounted for a material portion of the change inour net sales in ﬁscal 2025 or ﬁscal 2024.
Net sales by product line for ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024 were as follows (dollars in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 % 2024 %
Mixed-signal Microcontrollers $ 2,249.7 51.1 $ 4,272.4 56.0 Analog 1,157.0 26.3 2,016.4 26.4 Other 994.9 22.6 1,345.6 17.6 
Total net sales $ 4,401.6 100.0 $ 7,634.4 100.0 
Mixed-signal Microcontrollers Our mixed-signal microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.  Mixed-signal microcontrollers and associated application developmentsystems accounted for approximately 51.1% and 56.0% of our net sales in ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, respectively. Net sales of our mixed-signal microcontroller products decreased approximately 47.3% in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024. The decrease in net sales was primarily due toadverse economic conditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, competitive pressures, persistent inﬂation, high interest rates, and shorter productlead times, which factors resulted in many customers having higher levels of inventory and delaying or reducing orders.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. However, the overall average selling prices of our mixed-signalmicrocontroller products have remained relatively stable in recent periods due to the proprietary nature of these products.  We have in the past been able to moderate averageselling price declines in our mixed-signal microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices.  
Analog Our analog product line includes analog, interface, mixed-signal and timing products. Our analog product line accounted for approximately 26.3% and 26.4% of our net sales inﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, respectively.
Net sales from our analog product line decreased approximately 42.6% in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024. The decrease in net sales was primarily due to adverse economicconditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inﬂation, high interest rates, and shorter product lead times, which factors resulted inmany customers having higher levels of inventory and delaying or reducing orders. We consider a majority of the products in our analog product line to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in ourmixed-signal microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog product line will experience price ﬂuctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demandfor those products.
51
Table of Contents
Other Our other product line includes FPGA products, royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees forengineering services, memory products, timing systems, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application speciﬁc integrated circuits,and certain products for aerospace applications. Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 22.6% and 17.6% of our net sales in ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal2024, respectively.
Net sales related to these products and services decreased approximately 26.1% in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024. This decrease in net sales was primarily due to adverseeconomic conditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inﬂation, high interest rates, and shorter product lead times, which factorsresulted in many customers having higher levels of inventory and delaying or reducing orders. In ﬁscal 2025, we settled an ongoing legal matter with one of our licensees whichresulted in the release of an accrual, which increased both our revenue and proﬁts by $13.3 million in such ﬁscal period. Net sales of our other product line can ﬂuctuate over timebased on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our FPGA products, licenses, engineering services, memory products, timingsystems, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).  Distribution Distributors accounted for approximately 45% and 47% of our net sales in ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, respectively. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largestdistributor, which accounted for 10% and 12% of our net sales in ﬁscal 2025 and in ﬁscal 2024, respectively, no other distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% ofour net sales in ﬁscal 2025 or in ﬁscal 2024. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributorsprovide an eﬀective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base and that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as aneﬀective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advancenotice.  The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase ininventory returns. At March 31, 2025, our distributors maintained 33 days of inventory of our products compared to 41 days at March 31, 2024.  Over the past ten ﬁscal years, the days of inventorymaintained by our distributors have ﬂuctuated between approximately 17 days and 43 days.  Inventory holding patterns at our distributors have had a material adverse impact on ournet sales in recent periods. Due to the relatively high level of inventory days, we have accommodated eﬀorts by our distributors to manage their inventory levels by allowing them topush-out or cancel orders.
Sales by Geography Sales by geography for ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024 were as follows (dollars in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 % 2024 %Americas $ 1,325.7 30.2 $ 2,215.4 29.0 Europe 878.1 19.9 1,851.7 24.3 Asia 2,197.8 49.9 3,567.3 46.7 
Total net sales $ 4,401.6 100.0 $ 7,634.4 100.0 
Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 75% of our total netsales in each of ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024. The decrease in net sales in the European market in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024 was due to general weakness in the Europeaneconomy, and decreases in our net sales in the European industrial and automotive markets, which were particularly weak. Our net sales in the Americas and Asia market decreasedin ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024, primarily due to adverse economic conditions, including slowing economic activity, persistent inﬂation, high interest rates, and shorter productlead times which resulted in delayed or reduced orders. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports asigniﬁcant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. 
52
Table of Contents
Gross Proﬁt Our gross proﬁt in ﬁscal 2025 was $2.47 billion, or 56.1% of net sales, compared to $5.00 billion, or 65.4% of net sales, in ﬁscal 2024.
The primary reason for the decrease in gross proﬁt of $2.34 billion in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024 was an unfavorable net impact of sales volume, product mix, geographicmix, and average gross proﬁt per unit in ﬁscal 2025. The net impact of product mix and average gross proﬁt per unit may ﬂuctuate over time due to the mix of sales volumes of loweror higher margin products, changes in selling prices, and ﬂuctuations in product costs. We are not able to separately quantify these impacts on our gross proﬁt. The impact ofunabsorbed capacity charges was an adverse impact of $132.3 million in ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024. Unabsorbed capacity charges are expensed as incurred when weoperate our manufacturing facilities below normal levels. The net impact to our gross proﬁt from inventory reserve charges was an adverse impact of $87.7 million in ﬁscal 2025compared to ﬁscal 2024. The gross margin impact of changes in licensing revenue, which has no associated cost of sales, was a favorable impact of $27.7 million in ﬁscal 2025compared to ﬁscal 2024.
Our overall inventory levels were $1.29 billion at March 31, 2025, compared to $1.32 billion at March 31, 2024. We maintained 251 days of inventory on our balance sheet atMarch 31, 2025 compared to 224 days of inventory at March 31, 2024. Our overall inventory level in dollars was generally ﬂat as a result of our eﬀorts to balance manufacturingproduction, customer demand and inventory levels. However, our days of inventory increased signiﬁcantly due to lower net sales. Our inventory amounts are impacted by timing ofshipment activity in the quarter, the timing of receipt of raw materials, foundry wafers, and strategic last time buy materials and completion of ﬁnished goods. We believe that ourcurrent inventory and production capacity are adequate to fulﬁll the projected requirements of our customers. We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world. During ﬁscal 2025, approximately 67% of our assemblyrequirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities, compared to approximately 59% during ﬁscal 2024. During ﬁscal 2025, approximately 67% of our test requirementswere performed in our internal facilities, compared to approximately 71% during ﬁscal 2024. The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internallyﬂuctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities. We believe that theassembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with signiﬁcant cost savings compared to third-party contractor assembly and test costs, as well asincreased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. We plan to continue to selectively invest in assembly and test equipment to increase our internal capacitycapabilities and transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a signiﬁcant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Approximately 64% of our net sales came from products that were producedat outside wafer foundries in each of ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024. This percentage may vary based on supply and demand conditions in the market.
We anticipate that our gross margins will ﬂuctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall mix of products sold during the period, as well asmanufacturing yields, unabsorbed capacity charges, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve. We continue to transition products to more advanced processtechnologies to reduce future manufacturing costs.
Research and Development
R&D expenses for ﬁscal 2025 were $983.8 million, or 22.4% of net sales, compared to $1.10 billion, or 14.4% of net sales, for ﬁscal 2024. We are committed to investing in newand enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.  We believe these investments are signiﬁcant factors inmaintaining our competitive position.  R&D costs are expensed as incurred.  Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized whenrelated to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives.  R&D expenses include labor,depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments.
R&D expenses decreased $113.6 million, or 10.4%, for ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024. The primary reasons for the decrease in R&D expenses in ﬁscal 2025 compared toﬁscal 2024 was lower employee compensation costs.
R&D expenses ﬂuctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels.
53
Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative expenses for ﬁscal 2025 were $617.7 million, or 14.0% of net sales, compared to $734.2 million, or 9.6% of net sales, for ﬁscal 2024.  Our goalis to continue to be more eﬃcient with our selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to ﬁeld sales,marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses as well as costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who workremotely from sales oﬃces worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $116.5 million, or 15.9%, for ﬁscal 2025 compared to ﬁscal 2024. The primary reason for the decrease in selling, generaland administrative expenses was lower employee compensation costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses ﬂuctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels.
Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets
Amortization of acquired intangible assets in ﬁscal 2025 was $490.9 million compared to $605.4 million in ﬁscal 2024. The primary reason for the decrease in acquired intangibleasset amortization was due to the use of accelerated amortization methods for assets placed in service in previous ﬁscal years.
Special Charges (Income) and Other, Net
During ﬁscal 2025, we incurred special charges and other, net of $79.2 million primarily due to restructuring expenses, including $45.7 million related to contract exit costs and$27.1 million related to employee separation costs. During ﬁscal 2024, we earned special income and other, net of $12.3 million primarily related to a favorable resolution of apreviously accrued legal matter partially oﬀset by restructuring costs of acquired and existing wafer fabrication operations to increase operational eﬃciency. Restructuring expensesincurred during ﬁscal 2024 include $6.2 million related to the restructuring of our wafer fabrication operations.
Other Income (Expense)
Interest income in ﬁscal 2025 was $9.2 million compared to $7.6 million in ﬁscal 2024.
Interest expense in ﬁscal 2025 was $259.2 million compared to $198.3 million in ﬁscal 2024. The primary reasons for the increase in interest expense in ﬁscal 2025 compared toﬁscal 2024 were higher interest rates on our outstanding variable rate debt and higher outstanding debt balances, oﬀset in part by lower interest expense on our revolving creditfacility.
Loss on settlement of debt in ﬁscal 2025 was $1.7 million compared to $12.2 million in ﬁscal 2024. In ﬁscal 2025, the loss primarily related to the amendment and restatement ofour Revolving Credit Facility. In ﬁscal 2024, the loss related to the settlement of a portion of our outstanding Convertible Debt.
Other loss, net, in ﬁscal 2025 was $5.7 million compared to other loss, net of $2.2 million in ﬁscal 2024. The primary reason for the change in other loss during ﬁscal 2025compared to ﬁscal 2024 relates to foreign currency exchange rate ﬂuctuations.
Provision for Income Taxes
Our provision for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our eﬀective tax rate for the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025, increased over thesame period last year as a result of changes in the amount of pre-tax income earned, R&D credits, foreign operations and various tax reserves.
Our eﬀective tax rate in ﬁscal 2025 includes a $60.1 million tax beneﬁt received from current year generated R&D credits, which reduced our eﬀective tax rate by 154.4%; a$55.0 million tax expense for the eﬀects of foreign operations, which increased our eﬀective tax rate by 141.3%; and a $45.1 million tax expense related to changes in various taxreserves, which increased our eﬀective tax rate by 115.8%.
54
Table of Contents
Our eﬀective tax rate in ﬁscal 2024 includes a $69.8 million tax beneﬁt received from R&D credits, which reduced our eﬀective tax rate by 3.0%; and a $62.9 million tax expensefor the eﬀects of foreign operations, which increased our eﬀective tax rate by 2.7%.
We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in which we have operations. The eﬀective tax rates that we pay in these jurisdictions vary widely, but they are generally lowerthan our combined U.S. federal and state eﬀective tax rate. Our domestic blended statutory tax rate in each of ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024 was approximately 22%. Our non-U.S.blended statutory tax rates in ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024 were lower than this amount. The diﬀerence in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors,including lower statutory rates, tax holidays, ﬁnancing arrangements and other factors. Our eﬀective tax rate has been and will continue to be impacted by the geographicaldispersion of our earnings and losses.
Our foreign tax rate diﬀerential beneﬁt primarily relates to our operations in Malta taxed at a 5.0% statutory tax rate and Ireland taxed at a 12.5% statutory tax rate. Additionally,our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant, and equipment in Thailand. Our taxholiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays, otherwise we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of20.0%. We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our eﬀective tax rate.
In September 2021, we received a Statutory Notice of Deﬁciency (2007 to 2012 Notice) from the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for ﬁscal 2007 through ﬁscal 2012.The disputed amounts largely relate to transfer pricing matters. In December 2021, we ﬁled a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2007 to 2012 Notice. In September 2023,we received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) from the IRS for ﬁscal 2013 and ﬁscal 2016. In October 2023, we received a Statutory Notice of Deﬁciency (2014 to 2015 Notice) from theIRS for ﬁscal 2014 and ﬁscal 2015. The disputed amounts for ﬁscal 2013 to ﬁscal 2016 largely relate to transfer pricing matters. In December 2023, we ﬁled a petition in the U.S. TaxCourt challenging the 2014 to 2015 Notice.
In May 2023, we received a proposed income adjustment from the Malaysian Inland Revenue Board (IRB) for ﬁscal 2020. In December 2023, we received a Notice of Assessmentfrom the IRB asserting the same proposed income adjustment. In March 2025, we entered into a Consent Judgment before the High Court, agreeing that the dispute will be heardbefore the Special Commissioners of Income Tax (SCIT). It was also agreed that the payment on the taxes assessed is stayed and the IRB will pause all enforcement and proceedingsagainst the collection of the taxes assessed until the appeal before the SCIT is concluded. If the adjustment is upheld by the highest court that has jurisdiction over this matter inMalaysia, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $410.0 million. The disputed amounts largely relate to the characterization of certain assets. The timing of adjudicatingthis matter is uncertain but could occur in the next 12 months.
In January 2025, we received several assessments from the German Tax Authorities (GTA) regarding the German extraterritorial taxation of royalty payments betweennonresidents (referred to as oﬀshore receipts in respect of intangible property or ORIP) and intellectual property transfers by nonresidents (referred to as extraterritorial capital gainstaxation or ETT). If the assessment is upheld, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $92.0 million. The timing of adjudicating this matter is uncertain but could occur inthe next 12 months.
We ﬁrmly believe that the assessments described above are without merit and we plan to pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary to resolve thismatter. We intend to vigorously defend our position, and we are conﬁdent in our ability to prevail on the merits. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resultingfrom examinations such as these to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves. The ultimate outcome of disputes of this nature is uncertain, and if the IRS, IRB and GTA were toprevail on their assertions, the assessed tax, penalties, and deﬁciency interest could have a material adverse impact on our ﬁnancial position, results of operations or cash ﬂows.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses.  Companies of oursize and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct signiﬁcant operations.  For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state taxreturns, our ﬁscal 2007 and later tax returns remain eﬀectively open for examination by the taxing authorities. We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the U.S. and invarious foreign jurisdictions. At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be. We record beneﬁts for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment ofwhether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law. If this threshold is not met, no tax beneﬁt of theuncertain tax position is recognized. If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax beneﬁt that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
55
Table of Contents
In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inﬂation Reduction Act into law. The Inﬂation Reduction Act includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (CorporateAMT) of 15.0% on the adjusted ﬁnancial statement income (AFSI) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.00 billion over a three-year period, as well as a 1% excise tax on thenet fair market value of stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The Corporate AMT is eﬀective beginning in ﬁscal 2024. The Inﬂation Reduction Act did not have a materialimpact on the year ending March 31, 2025 and the year ending March 31, 2024.
As of March 31, 2025, 55 countries have enacted various aspects of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base Erosion and Proﬁt Shifting Project toensure that multinational enterprises pay a GMT. In 38 of those countries, the GMT is eﬀective for tax years beginning in our ﬁscal 2025. As of March 31, 2025, the impact of GMT onour ﬁscal 2025 results is not material.
Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $771.7 million in cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2025, an increase of $452.0 million from the March 31, 2024 balance.   Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $898.1 million in ﬁscal 2025 primarily due to net loss of $0.5 million, adjusted for non-cash and non-operating charges of $798.5million and net cash inﬂows of $100.1 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities in ﬁscal 2025include a decrease in trade accounts receivable driven primarily by reduced revenue and timing of shipments and collections, a decrease in inventories, oﬀset by decreases inaccrued liabilities driven by decreases in sales related reserves, and a decrease due to cash refunded to our customers under the LTSAs. Net cash provided by operating activities was$2.89 billion in ﬁscal 2024 primarily due to net income of $1.91 billion, adjusted for non-cash and non-operating charges of $1.06 billion and net cash outflows of $76.7 million fromchanges in our operating assets and liabilities.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $287.8 million for ﬁscal 2025 compared to $392.1 million for ﬁscal 2024. Fiscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, investing cash ﬂows primarilyrelated to capital purchases and investments in other assets.
Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures were $126.0 million and $285.1 millionin ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, respectively. Capital expenditures were primarily for the selective expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and developmentequipment. Consistent with the slowing macroeconomic environment in ﬁscal 2025, we have paused most of our factory expansion actions and reduced our planned capitalinvestments through ﬁscal 2026. Our investments in equipment and facilities during the next 12 months are expected to be at or below $100 million. We believe that the capitalexpenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide suﬃcient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our newproducts and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced. We expect to ﬁnance our capital expenditures through ourexisting cash balances and cash ﬂows from operations.  While select investments are still being made, in the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2024, we paused most of our expansion activity.In the third quarter of ﬁscal 2025, we announced the closure of Fab 2 in Tempe, Arizona which was completed in May 2025. Despite pausing our expansion activity, we believe thatour current inventory and production capacity are adequate to fulﬁll the projected requirements of our customers. In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the CHIPS Act toprovide billions of dollars of cash incentives and a new investment tax credit to increase domestic manufacturing capacity in our industry. In December 2023, we reached aPreliminary Memorandum of Terms with the U.S. Department of Commerce for $162 million in CHIPS Act grants for two of our U.S. wafer fabrication facilities; however, we have notconcluded negotiations with the U.S. Department of Commerce and there can be no assurance that the grants will receive ﬁnal approval. If we do receive a CHIPS Act grant, therestrictions and operational requirements that are imposed on CHIPS Act grant recipients could add complexity to our operations and increase our costs. We expect to receive thecash beneﬁt associated with the investment tax credit for qualifying capital expenditures in future periods and may apply for other incentives provided by the legislation; however,there can be no assurance that we will receive any such other incentives, what the amount and timing of any incentive we receive will be, as to which other companies will receiveincentives and whether the legislation will have a positive or negative impact on our competitive position. 
56
Table of Contents
Financing Activities
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities was $158.3 million for ﬁscal 2025 compared to $2.41 billion for ﬁscal 2024. Signiﬁcant transactions aﬀecting our net ﬁnancing cash ﬂowsincluded:
• in ﬁscal 2025, $1.45 billion of net proceeds from the issuances of our Series A Preferred Stock, and• in ﬁscal 2025, $516.5 million of net cash used to pay down certain principal of our debt including settlement of our 2020 Convertible Debt, settlement of our 2025 TermLoan Facility, purchase of our capped call options, and the repayment of our 0.983% 2024 Notes partially funded by proceeds from the issuances of our 4.900% 2028Senior Notes, our 5.050% 2030 Senior Notes, our 2024 Senior Convertible Debt and our Commercial Paper, and• in ﬁscal 2024, $537.7 million of cash used to pay down certain principal of our debt, including settlement of a portion of our outstanding Convertible Debt, our 4.333%2023 Notes, our 2.670% 2023 Notes, our 0.972% 2024 Notes, and our Revolving Credit Facility, partially funded by proceeds from borrowings on our 2025 Term LoanFacility, proceeds from the issuance of our Commercial Paper, and proceeds from the issuance of our 5.050% 2029 Notes, and• in ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, we paid cash dividends to our stockholders of $975.7 million and $911.5 million, respectively, and• in ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024, we repurchased shares of our common stock for $96.5 million and $982.1 million, respectively.
In March 2025, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement pursuant to which the amended and restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16,2021 was amended and restated in its entirety. The second amended and restated Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured revolving loan facility in an aggregate principalamount of up to $2.25 billion, with a $250.0 million foreign currency sublimit, a $25.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a $20.0 million swingline loan sublimit. The SecondAmended and Restated Credit Agreement amended the maximum total leverage ratio ﬁnancial covenant to the following: 5.50 to 1.00 for period ending March 31, 2025, 5.50 to 1.00for period ending June 30, 2025, 6.25 to 1.00 for period ending September 30, 2025, 5.75 to 1.00 for period ending December 31, 2025, 4.75 to 1.00 for period ending March 31,2026, 4.00 to 1.00 for period ending June 30, 2026, 3.75 to 1.00 for period ending September 30, 2026, and 3.50 to 1.00 for any such period ended after the Restatement EﬀectiveDate that is not a period ending during the Covenant Relief Period. The Covenant Relief Period means the period following the Restatement Eﬀective Date to (but excluding) theearlier of (a) December 31, 2026 and (b) the date in which the Total Leverage Ratio for the most recently ended ﬁscal quarter shall not exceed 3.50 to 1.00 and certain otherconditions are satisﬁed. In November 2024, the amended and restated Credit Agreement, was amended to amend the maximum total leverage ratio ﬁnancial covenant for thequarterly periods ending on December 31, 2024 through December 31, 2025 to 4.75 to 1.00. In August 2023, our amended and restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16,2021 was amended by the ﬁrst incremental term loan amendment, dated as of August 31, 2023. Pursuant to this amendment, we borrowed an aggregate principal amount of $750.0million under the new 2025 Term Loan Facility bearing interest at the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate, plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.5%, or Alternate Base Rate, plus a margin of 0.125% to0.5%, with a maturity date of August 31, 2025, which was repaid in full in December 2024. The interest rate margins are determined based on our credit ratings.
In September 2023, we established a Commercial Paper program under which we may issue short-term unsecured promissory notes up to a maximum principal amountoutstanding at any time of $2.75 billion with a maturity of up to 397 days from the date of issue. The Commercial Paper is sold from time to time at a discount from par oralternatively, sold at par and bears interest rates that will vary based on market conditions and the time of issuance. Our intention is to reduce the amounts that would otherwise beavailable to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility by the outstanding amount of Commercial Paper. Pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement in March2025, the maximum principal amount outstanding at any time under the Commercial Paper program was updated to $2.25 billion. As of March 31, 2025, the principal amount of ouroutstanding indebtedness was $5.66 billion. We had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at March 31, 2025 and at March 31, 2024. At March 31, 2025, wehad $175.0 million in outstanding principal amount of Commercial Paper compared to $1.36 billion at March 31, 2024.
In March 2025, we issued 29.7 million Depositary Shares, representing approximately 1.5 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock has a$1,000.00 per share liquidation preference and $0.001 per share par value. As a result of the transaction, we received cash proceeds of $1.45 billion, net of underwriting fees andother issuance costs.
57
Table of Contents
Capital Returns
In November 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $4.00 billion of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Inﬁscal 2025, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of our common stock for $90.0 million under this authorization. In ﬁscal 2024, we repurchased approximately 11.9million shares of our common stock for $982.1 million under this authorization. As of March 31, 2025, approximately $1.56 billion remained available for repurchases under theprogram. As of March 31, 2025, we held approximately 39.3 million shares as treasury shares. Any future repurchases of shares of our common stock will be evaluated based on ourcash generation, leverage metrics, and market conditions.
In October 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.  To date, our cumulative dividendpayments have totaled approximately $7.63 billion. A quarterly dividend of $0.455 per share was declared on May 8, 2025 and will be paid on June 5, 2025 to stockholders of recordas of May 22, 2025. We expect the aggregate cash dividend for the June 2025 quarter to be approximately $245.1 million. Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at anytime and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, ﬁnancial condition, cash requirementsand future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board.  Our current intent is to maintain our level of quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, ourresults of operations, and potential changes in tax laws.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and proceeds from issuance ofour Commercial Paper will be suﬃcient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our long-term liquidity requirements primarily arisefrom working capital requirements, interest and principal repayments related to our outstanding indebtedness, capital expenditures, cash dividends, share repurchases, and incometax payments. For additional information regarding our cash requirements see "Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies", "Note 10. Leases", "Note 6. Debt" and "Note 12. IncomeTaxes" to our consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The semiconductor industry is capital intensive and in order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to makesigniﬁcant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development and to expand our existing facilities or potentially construct new facilities.  We mayincrease our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or our Commercial Paper program or seek additional equity or debt ﬁnancing from time to time to reﬁnance our existingdebt, maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.  The timingand amount of any such ﬁnancing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including the maturity dates of our existing debt, our level of dividend payments on our commonstock and Series A Preferred Stock, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of oﬀshore cash, demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, productmix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates.  We plan to reﬁnance certain of our existing notes as they mature and we may from time to timeseek to reﬁnance certain of our other outstanding debt or Convertible Debt through issuances of new notes or convertible debt, term loans, Commercial Paper, tender oﬀers,exchange transactions or open market repurchases. Such issuances, tender oﬀers or exchanges or purchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our ability tonegotiate acceptable terms, our liquidity position and other factors. There can be no assurance that any ﬁnancing will be available on acceptable terms due to uncertainties resultingfrom tariﬀs, high interest rates, high inﬂation, economic uncertainty, instability in the banking sector, public health concerns, or other factors, and any additional equity ﬁnancing orconvertible debt ﬁnancing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
Summarized Financial Information
The tables below present the summarized ﬁnancial information on a combined basis for Microchip Technology Incorporated and the following subsidiaries of MicrochipTechnology Incorporated that provide guarantees of our Senior Notes: Atmel Corporation, Microchip Holding Corporation, Microchip Technology LLC, Silicon Storage Technology, Inc.,Microsemi Corporation, and Microchip Storage Solutions LLC (such subsidiaries collectively, the Subsidiary Obligors). The debt securities are fully and unconditionally guaranteed bythe aforementioned subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The summarized ﬁnancialinformation is provided in accordance with the reporting requirements of Rule 13-01 under Regulation S-X and is not intended to present our ﬁnancial position or results ofoperations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as such principles are in eﬀect in the U.S.
We have presented summarized ﬁnancial information below for Microchip Technology Incorporated and the Subsidiary Obligors after the elimination of intercompanytransactions and balances among Microchip Technology Incorporated and the Subsidiary Obligors and investments in any subsidiaries (in millions). The Subsidiary Obligors regularlysell goods and services to non-guarantor subsidiaries (Non-Guarantors) and the Subsidiary Obligors regularly purchase goods and services from Non-
58
Table of Contents
Guarantor through intercompany arrangements. The summarized ﬁnancial information does not eliminate the eﬀects of these intercompany arrangements and separately presentsthe net eﬀect of all of the Subsidiary Obligors’ transactions with Non-Guarantor for the ﬁnancial measures presented below.
As of March 31, 2025 As of March 31, 2024Current assets, excluding intercompany $ 671.8 $ 470.8 Intercompany receivables from Non-Guarantors 3,527.3 2,665.6 Goodwill and intangible assets 4,586.8 4,619.0 Non-current assets, excluding intercompany 1,213.6 915.7 Non-current intercompany receivables from Non-Guarantors 181.6 186.6 
Total assets $ 10,181.1 $ 8,857.7 
Current liabilities, excluding intercompany $ 314.9 $ 618.1 Intercompany payables due to Non-Guarantors 6,095.1 5,867.6 Long-term debt 5,630.4 5,000.4 Non-current liabilities, excluding intercompany 959.6 1,037.7 Non-current intercompany payables due to Non-Guarantors 2,116.2 2,158.3 
Total liabilities $ 15,116.2 $ 14,682.1 
For the Year Ended March31, 2025 For the Year Ended March31, 2024Revenue, excluding intercompany $ 1,365.3 $ 2,242.7 Revenue from Non-Guarantors 400.2 560.4 Total revenue $ 1,765.5 $ 2,803.1 Gross proﬁt, excluding intercompany 971.0 1,973.4 Gross loss from Non-Guarantors (378.9) (692.9)Total gross proﬁt $ 592.1 $ 1,280.5 Operating income, excluding intercompany 483.0 1,419.9 Operating loss from Non-Guarantors (378.9) (692.9)Total operating income $ 104.1 $ 727.0 Net income, excluding intercompany 210.8 1,198.6 Net loss from Non-Guarantors (402.8) (733.4)
Total net income (loss) $ (192.0) $ 465.2 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to "Note 1. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies" to our consolidated ﬁnancial statements regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.
59
Table of Contents
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk
As of March 31, 2025, our current and long-term debt totaled $5.66 billion, all of which was ﬁxed rate and not subject to interest rate exposure. We intend to ﬁnance therepayment of our ﬁxed rate debt maturing within the next 12 months using available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and our Commercial Paper program or otherinstruments at which point, changes in interest rates will have a more signiﬁcant impact on our interest expense if we reﬁnance such ﬁxed rate debt with variable rate debt. Foradditional information, refer to "Note 6. Debt" for a summary of our debt obligations by maturity date.
Inﬂation Risk
Inﬂation has not had a material adverse impact on our operating results in recent periods. However, if our costs were to continue to become subject to signiﬁcant inﬂationarypressures, we may not be able to oﬀset such higher costs through price increases which could adversely impact our operating results.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) hereof are ﬁled as part of this Form 10-K.  See also Index to Financial Statements below.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as required by paragraph (b) of Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 under the Exchange Act, we evaluated underthe supervision of our Chief Executive Oﬃcer and our Chief Financial Oﬃcer, the eﬀectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as deﬁned in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) ofthe Exchange Act).  Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Oﬃcer and our Chief Financial Oﬃcer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were eﬀective toensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we ﬁle or submit under the Exchange Act (i) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the timeperiods speciﬁed in SEC rules and forms, and (ii) is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Oﬃcer and our Chief Financial Oﬃcer, asappropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information isaccumulated and communicated to our management.  Our disclosure controls and procedures include components of our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting.  Management'sassessment of the eﬀectiveness of our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting is expressed at the level of reasonable assurance because a control system, no matter how welldesigned and operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met.
Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management, including our principal executive oﬃcer and our principal ﬁnancial oﬃcer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control overﬁnancial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our ﬁnancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external purposes in accordancewith U.S. GAAP.  Internal control over ﬁnancial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately andfairly reﬂect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation ofﬁnancial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management anddirectors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could havea material eﬀect on our ﬁnancial statements. Management assessed our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting as of March 31, 2025, the end of our ﬁscal year.  Management based its assessment on criteria established inInternal Control – Integrated Framework (2013 framework)
60
Table of Contents
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Management's assessment included an evaluation of such elements as the design and operatingeﬀectiveness of key ﬁnancial reporting controls, process documentation, accounting policies, and our overall control environment.  This assessment is supported by testing andmonitoring performed by our ﬁnance organization. Based on our assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting was eﬀective as of the end of the ﬁscal year to provide reasonableassurance regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  We reviewed theresults of management's assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting ﬁrm, who audited our consolidated ﬁnancial statements included in this Form 10-K has issued an attestationreport on our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting as of March 31, 2025, which is included on page F-3.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting During the three months ended March 31, 2025, there was no change in our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting identiﬁed in connection with the evaluation required byparagraph (d) of Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 that has materially aﬀected, or is reasonably likely to materially aﬀect, our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
Trading Arrangements
None of our oﬃcers or directors adopted or terminated a Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement or a non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement (as deﬁned in Item 408(c) of Regulation S-K) during the fourth quarter of ﬁscal 2024.
Board of Directors Matters
On May 20, 2025, Karlton Johnson informed our Board of Directors (the "Board") of his decision to step down from the Board, eﬀective as of that date, in order to pursue otherprofessional and governance commitments. Mr. Johnson's decision was not the result of any disagreement with the Company, its management, or the Board. Mr. Johnson expressedhis appreciation for the opportunity to serve, and the Board thanks Mr. Johnson for his service and contributions during his tenure on the Board.
Upon the eﬀectiveness of Mr. Johnson's decision, the Board approved a resolution to reduce the authorized number of directors from seven to six.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not applicable.
61
Table of Contents
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Oﬃcers and Corporate Governance
Information on the members of our Board of Directors is incorporated herein by reference to our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders under thecaptions "The Board of Directors," and "Proposal One – Election of Directors." Information on the composition of our audit committee and the members of our audit committee, including information on our audit committee ﬁnancial experts, isincorporated by reference to our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption "The Board of Directors – Committees of the Board of Directors –Audit Committee." Information on our executive oﬃcers is provided in Item 1, Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Information About Our Executive Oﬃcers" at page 12, above.
Information with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, is incorporated herein by reference to our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting ofstockholders under the caption "Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports."
Information with respect to our code of ethics that applies to our directors, executive oﬃcers (including our principal executive oﬃcer and our principal ﬁnancial and accountingoﬃcer) and employees is incorporated by reference to our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption "Code of Business Conduct and Ethics."  Acopy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our website at the Investor Relations section under Mission Statement/Corporate Governance onwww.microchip.com. Information regarding material changes, if any, to procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors is incorporated by reference to ourproxy statement for the 2025 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption "Requirements, Including Deadlines, for Receipt of Stockholder Proposals for the 2025 AnnualMeeting of Stockholders; Discretionary Authority to Vote on Stockholder Proposals."
Our Board of Directors has adopted insider trading policies and procedures governing the purchase, sale, or any other disposition of the Company’s securities and material non-public information that are designed to promote compliance with insider trading laws, rules, regulations, and applicable NASDAQ standards. Our insider trading policies andprocedures apply to the Company and its directors, oﬃcers, employees, contractors, agents, service providers, and their immediate family members and continue to apply so long asthey remain in possession of material non-public information. A copy of our insider trading policies and procedures is ﬁled through incorporation by reference as Exhibit 19.1 hereto.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the caption "Executive Compensation" in our proxy statementfor our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders. Information with respect to director compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the caption "The Board of Directors – Director Compensation" inour proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders. Information with respect to compensation committee interlocks and insider participation in compensation decisions is incorporated herein by reference to the information underthe caption "The Board of Directors – Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders. Our Board compensation committee report on executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the caption "Executive Compensation –Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation" in our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneﬁcial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the caption"Executive Compensation – Equity Compensation Plan Information" in our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders.
62
Table of Contents
Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneﬁcial owners, members of our Board of Directors and management is incorporated herein by reference to theinformation under the caption "Security Ownership of Principal Stockholders, Directors and Executive Oﬃcers" in our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by this Item pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption "Certain Transactions" containedin our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders. The information required by this Item pursuant to Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K regarding the independence of our directors is incorporated by reference to the informationunder the caption "Meetings of the Board of Directors" contained in our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
The information required by this Item related to principal accountant fees and services as well as related pre-approval policies is incorporated by reference to the informationunder the caption "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" contained in our proxy statement for our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders.
63
Table of Contents
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)         The following documents are ﬁled as part of this Form 10-K:
Page(1) Financial Statements:Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) F-1Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting F-3Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2025 and 2024 F - 4Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 5Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 6Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 7Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 9Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F - 11(2) Financial Statement Schedules None(3) The Exhibits ﬁled with this Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference are set forth in the Exhibit Index, which is incorporated herein by this reference.
(b)         See Item 15(a)(3) above.(c)         See "Index to Financial Statements" included under Item 8 to this Form 10-K.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
Not applicable.
64
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
ExhibitNumber Exhibit Description Form File Number Exhibit Filing Date
Filed orFurnishedHerewith3.1 Amended and Restated Certiﬁcate of Incorporation of MicrochipTechnology Incorporated 8-K 000-21184 3.1 August 26, 2021
 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws eﬀective August 22, 2023 8-K 000-21184 3.1 August 23, 2023
 3.3 Certiﬁcate of Designations, ﬁled with the Secretary of State of theState of Delaware and eﬀective March 25, 2025 8-K 000-21184 3.1 March 25, 2025
 4.1 Indenture dated as of February 15, 2017 between MicrochipTechnology Incorporated and Wells Fargo Bank, NationalAssociation (including Form of Global 1.625% Convertible SeniorSubordinated Note due 2027)
8-K 000-21184 4.1 February 15, 2017
 
4.2 Description of Registered Securities X 4.3 Senior Notes Indenture, dated as of May 29, 2020, by and amongMicrochip Technology Incorporated, the subsidiary guarantorsnamed therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, astrustee
8-K 000-21184 4.2 June 3, 2020
 4.4 Form of 4.250% Senior Note due 2025 (included in Exhibit 4.2 of8-K ﬁled on June 3, 2020) 8-K 000-21184 4.4 June 3, 2020
 4.5 Indenture, dated as of December 1, 2020, between MicrochipTechnology Incorporated and Wells Fargo Bank, NationalAssociation, as trustee
8-K 000-21184 4.1 December 2, 2020
 4.6 Form of 0.125% Convertible Senior Note due 2024 (included inExhibit 4.1 of the 8-K ﬁled on December 2, 2020) 8-K 000-21184 4.2 December 2, 2020
 4.7 Senior Secured Notes Indenture, dated as of May 28, 2021, byand among Microchip Technology Incorporated, the subsidiaryguarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, NationalAssociation, as trustee and collateral agent
8-K 000-21184 4.1 May 28, 2021
 
4.8 Form of 0.983% Senior Secured Note due 2024 (included inExhibit 4.1 of 8-K ﬁled on May 28, 2021) 8-K 000-21184 4.2 May 28, 2021
 
4.9 Indenture dated February 29, 2024, by and between MicrochipTechnology Incorporated and Computershare Trust Company,National Association, as trustee
S-3ASR 333-277512 4.1 February 29, 2024
 4.10 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 7, 2024, amongMicrochip Technology Incorporated, the subsidiary guarantorsnamed therein and Computershare Trust Company, NationalAssociation, as trustee
8-K 000-21184 4.1 March 7, 2024
 
4.11 Form of Global Note for the 5.050% Senior Notes due 2029(included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.1) 8-K 000-21184 4.2 March 7, 2024
 
65
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
ExhibitNumber Exhibit Description Form File Number Exhibit Filing Date
Filed orFurnishedHerewith4.12 Indenture, dated as of May 31, 2024, by and between MicrochipTechnology Incorporated and Computershare Trust Company,National Association, as trustee
8-K 000-21184 4.1 May 31, 2024
 
4.13 Form of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2030 (included inExhibit 4.1) 8-K 000-21184 4.2 May 31, 2024
 
4.14 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 16, 2024,among Microchip Technology Incorporated, the subsidiaryguarantors named therein and Computershare Trust Company,National Association, as trustee
8-K 000-21184 4.1 December 16, 2024
 4.15 Form of Global Note for the 4.900% Senior Notes due 2028(included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.1) 8-K 000-21184 4.2 December 16, 2024
 4.16 Form of Global Note for the 5.050% Senior Notes due 2030(included as Exhibit B to Exhibit 4.1) 8-K 000-21184 4.3 December 16, 2024
 4.17 Form of Certiﬁcate for the 7.50% Series A Mandatory ConvertiblePreferred Stock (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 3.1) 8-K 000-21184 4.1 March 25, 2025
 4.18 Deposit Agreement, dated as of March 25, 2025, amongMicrochip Technology Incorporated and Equiniti Trust Company,LLC, acting as Depositary, and the holders from time to time ofthe depositary receipts described therein
8-K 000-21184 4.2 March 25, 2025
 4.19 Form of Depositary Receipt for the Depositary Shares (included asExhibit A to Exhibit 4.2) 8-K 000-21184 4.3 March 25, 2025
 10.1 Form of Capped Call Transaction Conﬁrmation 8-K 000-21184 10.1 May 31, 2024  10.2 Form of Capped Call Transaction Conﬁrmation 8-K 000-21184 10.1 March 25, 2025  
10.3 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December16, 2021, by and among Microchip Technology Incorporated, thelenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A., as administrative agent
8-K 000-21184 10.1 December 16, 2021  
 10.4 First Incremental Term Loan Amendment to the Amended andRestated Credit Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2023, by andamong Microchip Technology Incorporated, the subsidiaries ofthe Company party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., asadministrative agent, and the lenders thereto
10-Q 000-21184 10.4 November 2, 2023
 10.5 Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated CreditAgreement, dated as of November 8, 2024, by and amongMicrochip Technology Incorporated, the subsidiary guarantorsparty thereto, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A., as administrative agent
8-K 000-21184 10.1 November 12, 2024  
 
66
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
ExhibitNumber Exhibit Description Form File Number Exhibit Filing Date
Filed orFurnishedHerewith10.6 Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as ofMarch 25, 2025, by and among Microchip TechnologyIncorporated, the lenders from time to time party thereto andJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent
8-K 000-21184 10.1 March 25, 2025  
 10.7 Form of Dealer Agreement between Microchip TechnologyIncorporated, as issuer, and the applicable Dealer party thereto 8-K 000-21184 10.1 September 15, 2023
 10.8 Form of Indemniﬁcation Agreement between Registrant and itsdirectors and certain of its oﬃcers 10-K 000-21184 10.4 May 20, 2022
 10.9* Management Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended throughFebruary 26, 2021) 8-K 000-21184 10.1 March 2, 2021
 10.10* Microchip Technology Incorporated Supplemental RetirementPlan S-8 333-101696 4.1.1 December 6, 2002
 10.11* Amendments to Supplemental Retirement Plan 10-Q 000-21184 10.1 February 9, 2006  
10.12* Amended and Restated Adoption Agreement for the MicrochipTechnology Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan datedJanuary 1, 2024
10-K 000-21184 10.9 May 23, 2024  
 10.13* Retirement Agreement and Release, dated as of November 22,2024, by and between Microchip Technology Incorporated andGanesh Moorthy
10-Q 000-21184 10.2 February 6, 2025
 10.14* 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restatedthrough August 22, 2023 8-K 000-21184 10.1 August 23, 2023
 10.15* 1994 International Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amendedand restated through August 22, 2023 8-K 000-21184 10.2 August 23, 2023
 10.16* 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated August 20,2024 8-K 000-21184 10.1 August 22, 2024
 10.17* Form of Notice of Grant for 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (includingExhibit A Stock Option Agreement) S-8 333-119939 4.5 October 25, 2004
 10.18* Form of RSU Grant Notice and Global RSU Agreement V-4004 10-K 000-21184 10.17 May 30, 2019  10.19* Form of Notice of Stock Option Grant and Stock OptionAgreement 10-K 000-21184 10.18 May 30, 2019
 
10.20* Form of CEO RSU Grant and RSU Agreement 10-K 000-21184 10.19 May 30, 2019  10.21* Form of Notice of Grant of RSU Agreement 10-K 000-21184 10.20 May 30, 2019  10.22* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (TSR) 8-K 000-21184 10.1 January 7, 2020  10.23* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Performance)for 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (including Exhibit A PerformanceMatrix)
10-K 000-21184 10.18 May 20, 2022
 
67
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
ExhibitNumber Exhibit Description Form File Number Exhibit Filing Date
Filed orFurnishedHerewith10.24* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units for 2004 EquityIncentive Plan 10-K 000-21184 10.19 May 20, 2022
 10.25* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Performance)for 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (including Exhibit A PerformanceMatrix)
10-Q 000-21184 10.1 November 3, 2022
 
10.26* Amended and Restated Form of Notice of Grant of RestrictedStock Units (Performance) for 2004 Equity Incentive Plan(including Exhibit A Performance Matrix)
10-Q 000-21184 10.1 February 2, 2023
 10.27* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (PSU, 8Quarters, Ops Matrix) 10-K 000-21184 10.11 May 25, 2023
 10.28* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (PSU, 12Quarters, Updated Ops Matrix) 10-K 000-21184 10.12 May 25, 2023
 10.29* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (PSU, 8Quarters, Ops Matrix) X
 10.30* Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (PSU, 12Quarters, Ops Matrix) X
 10.31* Change of Control Severance Agreement 10-K 000-21184 10.27 May 23, 2024  19.1 Insider Trading Policy 10-K 000-21184 19.1 May 23, 2024  19.2 Requirements for 10b5-1 Trading Plans 10-K 000-21184 19.2 May 23, 2024  21.1 Subsidiaries of Registrant X 22.1 Subsidiary Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities 10-Q 000-21184 22.1 February 6, 2025  
23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm X 24.1 Power of Attorney X 31.1 Certiﬁcation of Chief Executive Oﬃcer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (theExchange Act) X
 31.2 Certiﬁcation of Chief Financial Oﬃcer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (theExchange Act) X
 
32** Certiﬁcations Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adoptedpursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 X
 97.1 Compensation Recovery Policy 10-K 000-21184 97.1 May 23, 2024  101.INS XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does notappear in the Interactive File because its XBRL tags are embeddedwithin the Inline XBRL document X
 
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document X 
68
Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
ExhibitNumber Exhibit Description Form File Number Exhibit Filing Date
Filed orFurnishedHerewith101.CAL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document X 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Deﬁnition Linkbase Document X 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document X 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document X
 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags areembedded within the Inline XBRL document and contained inExhibit 101 X
 *Compensation plans or arrangements in which directors orexecutive oﬃcers are eligible to participate  ** Furnished herewith  
69
Table of Contents
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by theundersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED (Registrant) May 22, 2025 By: /s/ Steve Sanghi                                                    Steve Sanghi
 Chief Executive Oﬃcer and President(Principal Executive Oﬃcer)
70
Table of Contents
Power of Attorney
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned oﬃcer or director of Microchip Technology Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the Company), does herebyconstitute and appoint each of STEVE SANGHI and J. ERIC BJORNHOLT, with full power to each of them to act alone, as the true and lawful attorneys and agents of the undersigned,with full power of substitution and resubstitution to each of said attorneys to execute, ﬁle or deliver any and all instruments and to do any and all acts and things which saidattorneys and agents, or any of them, deem advisable to enable the Company to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any requirements of theSecurities and Exchange Commission in respect thereto relating to this annual report on Form 10-K, including speciﬁcally, but without limitation of the general authority herebygranted, the power and authority to sign such person's name individually and on behalf of the Company as an oﬃcer or director (as indicated below opposite such person'ssignature) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K or any amendments or supplements thereto; and each of the undersigned does hereby fully ratify and conﬁrm all that saidattorneys and agents or any of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. This Power of Attorney revokes any and all previous powers of attorney granted by any of theundersigned which such power would have entitled said attorneys and agents, or any of them, to sign such person's name, individually or on behalf of the Company, to any Form 10-K.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed the foregoing power of attorney on this 22nd day of May, 2025.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacitiesand on the dates indicated.
Name and Signature   Title  Date
      
/s/ Steve Sanghi   Chief Executive Oﬃcer and President  May 22, 2025Steve Sanghi   (Principal Executive Oﬃcer)         
/s/ Ellen L. Barker   Director  May 22, 2025Ellen L. Barker      
Director
Rick Cassidy
/s/ Matthew W. Chapman Director May 22, 2025Matthew W. Chapman
/s/ Victor Peng Director May 22, 2025Victor Peng
/s/ Karen M. Rapp Director May 22, 2025
Karen M. Rapp
/s/ J. Eric Bjornholt   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Oﬃcer  May 22, 2025J. Eric Bjornholt   (Principal Financial and Accounting Oﬃcer)   
71
Table of Contents
Annual Report on Form 10-K
Item 8, Item 15(a)(1) and (2), (b) and (c)
_________________________________
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EXHIBITS
_________________________________
YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATEDAND SUBSIDIARIES
CHANDLER, ARIZONA
Table of Contents
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
PageReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) F-1Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting F - 3Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2025 and 2024 F - 4Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 5Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 6Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 7Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025 F - 9Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F - 11
i
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Microchip Technology Incorporated
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microchip Technology Incorporated and subsidiaries (the Company) as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, the relatedconsolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash ﬂows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025, and the relatednotes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated ﬁnancial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancialposition of the Company at March 31, 2025 and 2024, and the results of its operations and its cash ﬂows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2025, inconformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over ﬁnancialreporting as of March 31, 2025, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the TreadwayCommission (2013 framework), and our report dated May 22, 2025 expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These ﬁnancial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s ﬁnancial statements based on ouraudits. We are a public accounting ﬁrm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securitieslaws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whetherthe ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement ofthe ﬁnancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidenceregarding the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and signiﬁcant estimates made bymanagement, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the ﬁnancial statements that was communicated or required to be communicatedto the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the ﬁnancial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complexjudgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, bycommunicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
F-1
Table of Contents
Unrecognized tax beneﬁts
Description of theMatter As more fully described in Note 12 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the Company operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and some of itsincome tax returns are being examined by local tax authorities that have challenged select tax positions taken on their local returns. Because the matterschallenged by authorities can be complex and subject to interpretation, their ultimate outcome can be uncertain. For select tax positions the Companyuses signiﬁcant judgment in (1) determining whether, based on its technical merits, it is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination and (2)measuring the amount of tax beneﬁt that qualiﬁes for recognition.
Auditing the recognition and measurement of unrecognized tax beneﬁts for the select positions that are currently being challenged by local taxauthorities was challenging and required a high degree of auditor judgment and increased extent of eﬀort, including the involvement of our taxprofessionals, because interpreting and applying tax laws can be complex.
How We Addressed theMatter in Our Audit We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating eﬀectiveness of controls over the Company’s accounting process for theselect tax positions that are currently being challenged by local tax authorities. This included testing controls over management’s review of the technicalmerits of these select tax positions, including the process to evaluate whether there is new information relevant to the select tax positions that are beingchallenged by local tax authorities.
Our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating the judgments the Company made to develop the select tax positions and relatedunrecognized tax beneﬁt. We involved our tax professionals, including international tax, transfer pricing and local professionals located in the relevantjurisdictions, who used their knowledge and experience to assess the technical merits of these tax positions and to evaluate the application of relevanttax laws in the Company’s recognition determination. We assessed the Company’s correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and, as applicable,evaluated tax opinions or other third-party advice obtained by the Company. We also evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included inNote 12 in relation to these select tax positions.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2001.
Phoenix, ArizonaMay 22, 2025
F-2
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Microchip Technology Incorporated
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Microchip Technology Incorporated and subsidiaries’ internal control over ﬁnancial reporting as of March 31, 2025, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, MicrochipTechnology Incorporated and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, eﬀective internal control over ﬁnancial reporting as of March 31, 2025, based on theCOSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Companyas of March 31, 2025 and 2024, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash ﬂows for each of the three years in the periodended March 31, 2025, and the related notes and our report dated May 22, 2025 expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining eﬀective internal control over ﬁnancial reporting and for its assessment of the eﬀectiveness of internal control overﬁnancial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’sinternal control over ﬁnancial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting ﬁrm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to theCompany in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whethereﬀective internal control over ﬁnancial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design andoperating eﬀectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that ouraudit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Deﬁnition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over ﬁnancial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and the preparation ofﬁnancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over ﬁnancial reporting includes those policiesand procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reﬂect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with generally accepted accountingprinciples, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) providereasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material eﬀect on theﬁnancial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over ﬁnancial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of eﬀectiveness to futureperiods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures maydeteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Phoenix, ArizonaMay 22, 2025
F-3
Table of Contents
Item 1. Financial Statements
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(in millions, except share and per share amounts)
ASSETS March 31, March 31, 2025 2024Cash and cash equivalents $ 771.7 $ 319.7 Accounts receivable, net 689.7 1,143.7 Inventories 1,293.5 1,316.0 Other current assets 236.4 233.6 Total current assets 2,991.3 3,013.0 Property, plant and equipment, net 1,183.7 1,194.6 Goodwill 6,684.8 6,675.4 Intangible assets, net 2,389.0 2,781.8 Long-term deferred tax assets 1,728.1 1,596.5 Other assets 397.7 611.9 
Total assets $ 15,374.6 $ 15,873.2 
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITYAccounts payable $ 160.6 $ 213.0 Accrued liabilities 994.5 1,307.0 Current portion of long-term debt — 999.4 Total current liabilities 1,155.1 2,519.4 Long-term debt 5,630.4 5,000.4 Long-term income tax payable 633.4 649.2 Long-term deferred tax liability 33.8 28.8 Other long-term liabilities 843.6 1,017.6 Stockholders' equity:   Preferred stock, $0.001 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares; 7.50% Series A mandatory convertible preferred stock,1,485,000 shares issued and outstanding at March 31, 2025 with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, or $1,485.0million in the aggregate; no shares issued or outstanding at March 31, 2024 — — Common stock, $0.001 par value; authorized 900,000,000 shares; 577,996,915 shares issued and 538,704,604 sharesoutstanding at March 31, 2025; 577,806,659 shares issued and 536,663,691 shares outstanding at March 31, 2024 0.6 0.5 Additional paid-in capital 3,909.9 2,482.9 Common stock held in treasury: 39,292,311 shares at March 31, 2025; 41,142,968 shares at March 31, 2024 (2,611.6) (2,581.6)Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1.7) (3.5)Retained earnings 5,781.1 6,759.5 Total stockholders' equity 7,078.3 6,657.8 
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 15,374.6 $ 15,873.2 
See accompanying notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements
F-4
Table of Contents
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(in millions, except per share amounts)
Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2025 2024 2023Net sales $ 4,401.6 $ 7,634.4 $ 8,438.7 Cost of sales 1,933.7 2,638.7 2,740.8 Gross proﬁt 2,467.9 4,995.7 5,697.9 
Research and development 983.8 1,097.4 1,118.3 Selling, general and administrative 617.7 734.2 797.7 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 490.9 605.4 669.9 Special charges (income) and other, net 79.2 (12.3) (4.0)Operating expenses 2,171.6 2,424.7 2,581.9 
Operating income 296.3 2,571.0 3,116.0 
Interest income 9.2 7.6 2.1 Interest expense (259.2) (198.3) (203.9)Loss on settlement of debt (1.7) (12.2) (8.3)Other (loss) income, net (5.7) (2.2) 3.8 Income before income taxes 38.9 2,365.9 2,909.7 Income tax provision 39.4 459.0 672.0 Net (loss) income (0.5) 1,906.9 2,237.7 Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock (2.2) — — 
Net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders $ (2.7) $ 1,906.9 $ 2,237.7 
Basic net (loss) income per common share $ (0.01) $ 3.52 $ 4.07 Diluted net (loss) income per common share $ (0.01) $ 3.48 $ 4.02 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.816 $ 1.682 $ 1.263 
Basic common shares outstanding 537.3 542.0 550.4 
Diluted common shares outstanding 537.3 548.0 557.3 
See accompanying notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements
F-5
Table of Contents
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME(in millions)
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Net (loss) income $ (0.5) $ 1,906.9 $ 2,237.7 Components of other comprehensive income:Actuarial gains related to deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, net of tax eﬀect 1.8 0.6 16.6 Change in net foreign currency translation adjustment — — (0.1)Other comprehensive income, net of tax eﬀect 1.8 0.6 16.5 Comprehensive income $ 1.3 $ 1,907.5 $ 2,254.2 
See accompanying notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements
F-6
Table of Contents
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(in millions)
 Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 2025 2024 2023Cash ﬂows from operating activities:   Net (loss) income $ (0.5) $ 1,906.9 $ 2,237.7 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:Depreciation and amortization 750.1 879.5 998.4 Deferred income taxes (143.3) (27.2) 205.5 Share-based compensation expense related to equity incentive plans 180.4 177.5 170.4 Loss on settlement of debt 1.7 12.2 8.3 Amortization of debt discount 64.8 37.5 7.2 Amortization of debt issuance costs 7.8 7.3 9.5 Impairment of intangible assets — 1.8 1.8 Other (63.0) (26.1) (1.8)Changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding impact of acquisitions:Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable 454.0 161.6 (232.7)Decrease (increase) in inventories 31.6 12.8 (483.2)(Decrease) increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities (345.6) (148.4) 323.4 Change in other assets and liabilities (38.1) (64.2) 404.5 Change in income tax payable (1.8) (38.5) (28.0)Net cash provided by operating activities 898.1 2,892.7 3,621.0 Cash ﬂows from investing activities:   Other investing 2.4 0.4 0.9 Proceeds from capital-related government incentives 0.4 6.0 — Investments in other assets (164.6) (113.4) (114.2)Capital expenditures (126.0) (285.1) (486.2)Net cash used in investing activities (287.8) (392.1) (599.5)Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities:   Proceeds from borrowings on Revolving Credit Facility 68.0 6,271.0 5,935.0 Repayments of Revolving Credit Facility (68.0) (6,371.0) (7,234.1)Proceeds from borrowings on 2025 Term Loan Facility — 750.0 — Repayments of 2025 Term Loan Facility (750.0) — — Proceeds from issuance of Commercial Paper 13,937.5 9,039.1 — Repayments of Commercial Paper (15,113.9) (7,688.7) — Proceeds from issuance of senior notes 1,992.2 994.7 — Repayment of senior notes (1,000.0) (3,400.0) — Proceeds from issuance of convertible debt 1,250.0 — — Payments on settlement of convertible debt (672.2) (132.8) (170.4)Issuance of Series A Preferred Stock 1,449.5 — — Deferred ﬁnancing costs (19.7) (3.0) — Purchase of capped call options (160.1) — — Proceeds from sale of common stock 65.4 82.1 82.3 Tax payments related to shares withheld for vested RSUs (57.6) (61.1) (75.8)Repurchase of common stock (96.5) (982.1) (945.8)Payment of cash dividends (975.7) (911.5) (695.3)Capital lease payments (1.6) (1.6) (0.8)Other Financing (5.6) — — 
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (158.3) (2,414.9) (3,104.9)Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 452.0 85.7 (83.4)Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of period 319.7 234.0 317.4 
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of period $ 771.7 $ 319.7 $ 234.0 
F-7
Table of Contents
 Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 2025 2024 2023
Supplemental disclosure of cash ﬂow information:Non-cash activities:ROU assets obtained in exchange of lease liabilities $ 10.2 $ 28.0 $ 38.4 Cash paid for:Interest $ 236.2 $ 191.2 $ 181.5 Income taxes $ 175.2 $ 517.1 $ 482.6 Operating lease payments in operating cash ﬂows $ 40.0 $ 39.0 $ 39.7 
    
See accompanying notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements
F-8
Table of Contents
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY(in millions)
Preferred StockPar Value Common StockPar Value
Additional Paid-in-CapitalAmount
Common StockHeld in TreasuryAmount Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss RetainedEarnings Total Equity
Balance at March 31, 2022 $ — $ 0.6 $ 2,535.9 $ (796.3) $ (20.6) $ 4,175.2 $ 5,894.8 Adoption of ASU 2020-06, cumulativeadjustment — — (128.3) — — 46.5 (81.8)Net income — — — — — 2,237.7 2,237.7 Other comprehensive income — — — — 16.5 — 16.5 Proceeds from sales of common stockthrough employee equity incentive plans — — 82.4 — — — 82.4 RSU withholdings — — (75.8) — — — (75.8)Treasury stock used for new issuances — — (81.9) 81.9 — — — Repurchase of common stock — (0.1) — (945.8) — — (945.9)Settlement of convertible debt — — (91.1) — — — (91.1)Share-based compensation — — 172.1 — — — 172.1 Dividends on common stock — — — — — (695.3) (695.3)Balance at March 31, 2023 — 0.5 2,413.3 (1,660.2) (4.1) 5,764.1 6,513.6 Net income — — — — — 1,906.9 1,906.9 Other comprehensive income — — — — 0.6 — 0.6 Proceeds from sales of common stockthrough employee equity incentive plans — — 82.1 — — — 82.1 RSU withholdings — — (61.1) — — — (61.1)Treasury stock used for new issuances — — (67.5) 67.5 — — — Repurchase of common stock — — — (988.9) — — (988.9)Settlement of convertible debt — — (65.3) — — — (65.3)Share-based compensation — — 181.4 — — — 181.4 Dividends on common stock — — — — — (911.5) (911.5)Balance at March 31, 2024 — 0.5 2,482.9 (2,581.6) (3.5) 6,759.5 6,657.8 Net (loss) — — — — — (0.5) (0.5)Other comprehensive income — — — — 1.8 — 1.8 Issuance of Series A Preferred Stock — — 1,449.5 — — — 1,449.5 Proceeds from sales of common stockthrough employee equity incentive plans — — 65.4 — — — 65.4 RSU withholdings — — (57.6) — — — (57.6)Treasury stock used for new issuances — 0.1 (59.7) 59.6 — — — Repurchase of common stock — — — (89.6) — — (89.6)Purchase of capped call options — — (160.1) — — — (160.1)Share-based compensation — — 189.5 — — — 189.5 Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock — — — — — (2.2) (2.2)
F-9
Table of Contents
Preferred StockPar Value Common StockPar Value
Additional Paid-in-CapitalAmount
Common StockHeld in TreasuryAmount Accumulated OtherComprehensive Loss RetainedEarnings Total Equity
Dividends on common stock — — — — — (975.7) (975.7)
Balance at March 31, 2025 $ — $ 0.6 $ 3,909.9 $ (2,611.6) $ (1.7) $ 5,781.1 $ 7,078.3 
See accompanying notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements
F-10
Table of Contents
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIESNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Nature of Business Microchip Technology Incorporated (Microchip or the Company) develops, manufactures and sells smart, connected and secure embedded control solutions used by itscustomers for a wide variety of applications. The Company provides cost-eﬀective embedded control solutions that also oﬀer the advantages of small size, high performance,extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed-signal integration, and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-eﬀective integration of the Company'ssolutions by its customers in their end products.
Principles of Consolidation The Company prepares its consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the accounts of Microchip and itsmajority-owned and controlled subsidiaries.  All signiﬁcant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. All dollar amounts in the ﬁnancialstatements and tables in these notes, except per share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. For comparative purposes, certain prior year amountshave been reclassiﬁed to conform to the current year presentation and such changes are not material to our consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Revenue Recognition
The Company generates revenue primarily from sales of semiconductor products to distributors and non-distributor customers (direct customers) and, to a lesser extent, fromroyalties paid by licensees of intellectual property. The Company applies the following ﬁve-step approach to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognition: (i) identify thecontract with the customer, (ii) identify performance obligations in the contract, (iii) determine the transaction price, (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligationsin the contract, and (v) recognize revenue when the performance obligations are satisﬁed.
Sales of semiconductor products to customers are governed by a purchase order, an order acknowledgment, and a distributor agreement in the case of the Company'sdistributor customers. Sales to customers do not meet the deﬁnition of a contract until the customer has sent in a purchase order, the Company has acknowledged the order, theCompany has deemed the collectability of the consideration to be probable, and legally enforceable rights and obligations have been created. As is customary in the semiconductorindustry, the Company oﬀers price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of its distributors. As these are forms of variable consideration, the Company estimates the amountof consideration to which they will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method. Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts withcustomers is recognized at, or near to, the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
The Company entered into LTSAs with certain of its customers that purchase through distributors or directly from the Company. Under these LTSAs, the Company receives anupfront deposit and minimum purchase commitments from the customer in exchange for assured supply over the contract period, which typically ranges from three to ﬁve years. Ifthe customer meets the minimum purchase commitments deﬁned in the contract, the Company returns the deposit to the customer. If not, the Company may retain all, or a portionof the deposit which will be recognized as revenue as the remaining performance obligations under the LTSAs are satisﬁed. Certain upfront deposits collected by the Company arerecorded as deferred revenue in accrued liabilities or other long-term liabilities depending on the expected timing of the satisfaction of the underlying performance obligations.
Revenue generated from licensees is governed by licensing agreements. The Company's primary performance obligation related to these agreements is to provide the licenseethe right to use the intellectual property. The ﬁnal transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is ﬁxed in the licensing agreement.Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs.
F-11
Table of Contents
Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.  Assets purchased to support the Company's ongoing research and development activities are capitalized whenrelated to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their estimated useful lives.  Research and developmentexpenses include expenditures for labor, share-based payments, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for development of process technologies, new packages, andsoftware to support new products and design environments.
Restructuring Charges
Restructuring charges are included within special charges and other, net in the consolidated statements of operations and are primarily comprised of employee separation costs,contract exit costs, costs of facility consolidation and closure, including the related gains or losses associated with the sale of assets. Employee separation costs include one-timetermination beneﬁts that are recognized as a liability at estimated fair value at the time of communication to employees, unless future service is required, in which case the costs arerecognized ratably over the future service period. Ongoing termination beneﬁts are recognized as a liability at estimated fair value when the amount of such beneﬁts is probable andreasonably estimable. Contract exit costs include contract termination fees. A liability for contract termination fees is recognized in the period in which the Company terminates thecontract.
Foreign Currency Translation Substantially all of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are considered to be extensions of the U.S. company and any translation gains and losses related to these subsidiaries areincluded in other income (loss), net in the consolidated statements of income.  As the U.S. dollar is utilized as the functional currency, gains and losses resulting from foreign currencytransactions (transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiaries' functional currency) are also included in income.
Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing its consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the Company is required to record its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business may scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses.  Companies of a similarsize and complexity as the Company are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct signiﬁcant operations.  During the ﬁscal yearended March 31, 2025, various jurisdictions ﬁnalized their audits for certain periods. The close of these audits did not have a material adverse impact on the ﬁnancial statements.The Company is currently being audited by the tax authorities in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. At this time, the Company does not know what the outcome ofthese audits will be. The Company records beneﬁts for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustainedbased on their technical merits under currently enacted law. If this threshold is not met, no tax beneﬁt of the uncertain tax position is recognized. If the threshold is met, theCompany recognizes the largest amount of the tax beneﬁt that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
The accounting model related to the measurement of uncertain tax positions requires the Company to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxingauthority that has full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of oﬀset or aggregation with otherpositions.  The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if the Company believes the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk mattersis remote or where it has a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or overlooking an issue.  The Company will record an adjustment to a previously recordedposition if new information or facts related to the position are identiﬁed in a subsequent period.  Generally, adjustments to the positions are recorded through the incomestatement.  Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, theclosing of a statutory audit period, changes in applicable law, or interactions with taxing authorities.  Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process, including thecomplexity involved to interpret and apply tax laws, and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the ﬁnancial statements in periodssubsequent to the initial recognition may signiﬁcantly diﬀer from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
In December 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law and established a new provision designed to tax low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries known as global intangible low-taxedincome (GILTI). The FASB allows taxpayers to make an accounting
F-12
Table of Contents
policy election of either (i) treating taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred or (ii) recognizing deferred taxes for temporary basis diﬀerences that areexpected to reverse as GILTI in future years. The Company has made a policy choice to treat taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred.
Cash and Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments, including marketable securities with an original maturity to the Company of three months or less when acquired are considered to be cashequivalents.  Inventories  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out method. Inventory costs generally consist of material, labor, depreciation andoverhead costs. The Company records a charge to cost of sales to write down its inventory for estimated excess, obsolete or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to thediﬀerence between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions areless favorable than those projected by the Company, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory andcharges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In determining whether there is a risk ofexcess or obsolete inventory, the Company evaluates projected demand over periods that align with demand forecasts used to develop manufacturing plans and inventory builddecisions and writes down inventory on hand that is in excess of estimated demand. Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on speciﬁc situations. Forexample, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand. Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extentany existing products are being replaced or discontinued. The valuation of inventory includes determining which ﬁxed production overhead costs can be included in inventory based on the normal operating capacity of the Company'smanufacturing facilities. In periods where the Company's production levels are below normal operating capacity, unabsorbed overhead production costs associated with the reducedproduction levels of the Company's manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.  Major renewals and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred.  TheCompany's property and equipment accounting policies incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to the useful lives of its property and equipment.  Depreciation isprovided for assets placed in service on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relative assets, which range from 10 to 30 years for buildings and buildingimprovements and 5 to 7 years for machinery and equipment.  The Company evaluates the carrying value of its property and equipment when events or changes in circumstancesindicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired.  Asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. Leases
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at its inception. Operating lease arrangements are comprised primarily of real estate and equipment agreements for whichthe ROU assets are included in other assets and the corresponding lease liabilities, depending on their maturity, are included in accrued liabilities or other long-term liabilities in theconsolidated balance sheets.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Operating lease ROU assetsalso include any initial direct costs and prepayments less lease incentives. Lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that theCompany will exercise such options.
As the Company's leases generally do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its collateralized incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the leasecommencement date, including lease term, in determining the present value of lease payments. Lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the leaseterm.
F-13
Table of Contents
Debt The Company presents short-term debt obligations, which include debt obligations with a contractual maturity within 12 months of the balance sheet date and Convertible Debtthat is convertible as of the balance sheet date, as long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheets when the Company has the intent and ability to utilize proceeds from itsRevolving Credit Facility to reﬁnance such debt on a long-term basis. Discounts and issuance costs directly related to the issuance of debt are amortized over the term as interestexpense under the eﬀective interest rate method or on a straight-line basis in the case of the Company's Revolving Credit Facility.
The Company accounts for its Convertible Debt as a single liability with no separate accounting for embedded conversion features. The Company accounts for privatelynegotiated settlements of its Convertible Debt as induced conversions, resulting in an inducement loss measured as the diﬀerence between the fair value of the considerationtransferred and the fair value of the original terms of the instrument on the acceptance date. The remaining consideration transferred, after reducing the carrying amount of theConvertible Debt, is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in-capital on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. Prior to conversion of its Convertible Debt, the Companyincludes, in the diluted net income per common share calculation, the eﬀect of the additional shares that may be issued when the Company's common stock price exceeds theconversion price using the if-converted method. The Company's Convertible Debt has no impact on diluted net income per common share unless the average price of the Company'scommon stock exceeds the conversion price because the Company is required to settle the principal amount of the Convertible Debt in cash upon conversion.
Deﬁned Beneﬁt Pension Plans
The Company maintains deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, covering certain of its foreign employees. For ﬁnancial reporting purposes, net periodic pension costs and pensionobligations are determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates for plan obligations, and assumed rates of compensation increases for employeesparticipating in plans. These assumptions are based upon management's judgment and consultation with actuaries, considering all known trends and uncertainties.
Contingencies
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims and other matters.  Additionally, theCompany is involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiﬀ and defendant.  Consequently, the Company could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.  TheCompany also periodically receives notiﬁcations from various third parties alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights, or from customers requestingreimbursement for various costs.  With respect to pending legal actions to which the Company is a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable,the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse eﬀect on its ﬁnancial position, cash ﬂows or results of operations.  Litigation anddisputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and the Company is, from time to time, subject to such litigation and disputes.  As a result, no assurances can begiven with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation or disputes in the future.
The Company accrues for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable. As of the end of each applicable reporting period, the Companyreviews each of its matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, it accrues for all probable and reasonably estimable losses. Where the Company canreasonably estimate a range of losses it may incur regarding such a matter, it records an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes its best estimate. If the Company canreasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, it uses the amount that is the low end of such range. 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company's intangible assets include goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price paid for an acquisition exceeds the estimated fairvalue of the net identiﬁed tangible and intangible assets acquired. Other intangible assets include existing technologies, core and developed technology, in-process research anddevelopment, trademarks and trade names, distribution rights and customer-related intangibles. In-process research and development is capitalized until such time as the relatedprojects are completed or abandoned at which time the capitalized amounts will begin to be amortized or written oﬀ. Indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets consist of goodwill and in-process research and development intangible assets that have not yet been placed in service. All other intangible assets are deﬁnite-lived
F-14
Table of Contents
intangible assets, including in-process research and development assets that have been placed in service, and are amortized over their respective estimated lives, ranging from 1 to15 years.
The Company is required to perform an impairment review of indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill annually, and more frequently under certain circumstances.Indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets are subjected to this annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of the Company's ﬁscal year. The Company engages primarily in thedevelopment, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as technology licensing. As a result, the Company concluded there are two reporting units, semiconductorproducts and technology licensing. The Company's impairment evaluation consists of a qualitative impairment assessment in which management evaluates whether it is more likelythan not that the indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets are impaired. If it is determined that it is more likely than not, the Company performs a quantitative impairment test, whichcompares the fair value of the reporting unit or indeﬁnite-lived intangible asset to its carrying value. If the Company determines through the impairment process that the indeﬁnite-lived intangible asset has been impaired, the Company will record the impairment charge in its results of operation. Through March 31, 2025, the Company has never recorded agoodwill impairment charge. In the event that facts and circumstances indicate deﬁnite-lived intangible assets may be impaired, the Company evaluates the recoverability andestimated useful lives of such assets. If such indicators are present, recoverability is evaluated based on whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash ﬂows attributable tothe asset (group) in question is less than their carrying value. If less, the Company measures the fair value of the asset (group) and recognizes an impairment loss if the carryingamount of the assets exceeds their respective fair values. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The Company assesses whether indicators of impairment of long-lived assets are present.  If such indicators are present, the Company determines whether the sum of theestimated undiscounted cash ﬂows attributable to the asset groups in question is less than their carrying value.  If less, the Company recognizes an impairment loss based on theexcess of the carrying amount of the asset groups over their respective fair values.  Fair value is determined by discounted future cash ﬂows, appraisals or other methods.  If theassets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, the Company recognizes an impairment loss through a charge to operating results to the extent the present value ofanticipated net cash ﬂows attributable to the asset group are less than the asset's carrying value.  The Company would depreciate the remaining value over the remaining estimateduseful life of the asset groups.
Government Incentives
The Company receives government incentives for qualifying capital investments, research and development, and other activities as deﬁned by the relevant government entitiesawarding the grants. Government grants, including non-income tax incentives, are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Companywill comply with the conditions speciﬁed in the grant agreement. The Company records capital-related grants as a reduction to property, plant and equipment within theconsolidated balance sheets and recognizes a reduction to depreciation expense over the useful life of the corresponding asset. The Company records operating grants as a reductionto expense in the same line item on the consolidated statements of income as the expenditure for which the grant is intended to compensate. As of March 31, 2025, the Companyrecorded $46.4 million of capital-related grants as a reduction to property, plant and equipment with a corresponding oﬀset of $3.4 million within other assets and $36.0 million as areduction to income taxes payable within accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. As of March 31, 2024, the Company recorded $126.5 million of capital-related grantsas a reduction to property, plant and equipment with a corresponding oﬀset of $93.2 million within other assets and $27.3 million as a reduction to income taxes payable withinaccrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company recognized an immaterial beneﬁt to operating income for operating grants and the reduction of depreciationexpense for capital-related grants in each of ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024, and ﬁscal 2023.
Share-Based Compensation The Company has equity incentive plans under which RSUs have been granted to employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors.  The Company uses RSUswith a service condition as its primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees and also grants performance-based PSUs to executive oﬃcers and employees.  TheCompany also has employee stock purchase plans for eligible employees. Share-based compensation cost for RSUs with a service condition or performance-based PSUs is measuredon the grant date based on the fair market value of the Company’s common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line attributionmethod over the requisite service periods, with forfeitures recognized as they occur. Share-based compensation cost for performance-based PSUs is recognized if and when theCompany concludes that it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. The Company reassesses the probability of the performance condition at each reportingperiod and a cumulative catch-up adjustment is recorded to share-based compensation cost for any change in the probability assessment. If there are any
F-15
Table of Contents
modiﬁcations of the underlying unvested securities, the Company may be required to accelerate or increase any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Prior toﬁscal 2023, the Company granted market-based PSUs to executive oﬃcers. As of March 31, 2025, the remaining unearned share-based compensation expense related to market-based PSUs was immaterial.
Treasury Shares
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Shares repurchased are recorded at cost,inclusive of fees, commissions, taxes and other expenses. Treasury shares are re-issued on a ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out basis to fund share issuance requirements under the Company's equityincentive plans.
Series A Preferred Stock
The Company accounts for its Series A Preferred Stock as permanent equity carried at its par value. The Company computes net income attributable to common stockholders byreducing net income by the dividends on Series A Preferred Stock accumulated during the period. Prior to the conversion of its Series A Preferred Stock, the Company includes, in thediluted net income per common share calculation, the eﬀect of the conversion of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock into the Company's common stock at the applicableconversion rate using the if-converted method.
Concentrations of Credit Risk The Company is subject to counterparty risks from ﬁnancial institutions and customers. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of creditrisk consist primarily of cash deposits in excess of federally insured limits and accounts receivables. The Company manages credit risk exposure for cash deposits by limitingcounterparties to high-grade ﬁnancial institutions. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are generally not signiﬁcant due to the diversity of the Company'scustomers and geographic sales areas.  The Company sells its products primarily to OEMs and distributors in the Americas, Europe and Asia.  The Company performs ongoing creditevaluations of its customers' ﬁnancial condition and, as deemed necessary, may require collateral, primarily letters of credit. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, the Company'slargest distributor, which accounted for 13% of the accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2024, no other customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivablebalance as of March 31, 2025 or March 31, 2024. Distributor advances in the consolidated balance sheets, totaled $234.4 million and $413.2 million at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively.  On sales to distributors,the Company's payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to the Company for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost.  The Company's sales price toits distributors may be higher than the amount that the distributors will ultimately owe the Company because distributors often negotiate price reductions after purchasing theproducts from the Company and such reductions are often signiﬁcant.  It is the Company's practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring thedistributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced.  This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital ofthe Company's distributors.  As such, the Company has entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby it advances cash to the distributors to reduce the distributors'working capital requirements.  The Company provides these advances based on a negotiated percentage of the amount of inventory held by the distributor. Such advances have noimpact on revenue recognition or the Company's consolidated statements of income.  The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bearno interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand.  The agreements governing these advances can be canceled by the Company at any time and, upon cancellation, theamounts are due to the Company. Use of Estimates The Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets andliabilities to prepare its consolidated ﬁnancial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP.  Actual results could diﬀer from those estimates.
Subsequent Events
The Company evaluated events after March 31, 2025, and through the date the ﬁnancial statements were issued, and determined any events or transactions occurring duringthis period that would require recognition or disclosure are
F-16
Table of Contents
appropriately addressed in these ﬁnancial statements.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07-Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires public entities to disclosesigniﬁcant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker and included within each reported measure of segment proﬁt or loss, and an amountand description of the composition of other segment items to reconcile to segment proﬁt or loss. The amendments in this update also expand the interim segment disclosurerequirements. The Company adopted this standard in ﬁscal 2025. See "Note 3. Geographic and Segment Information" for further information.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09-Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which modiﬁes the rules on income tax disclosures toenhance the transparency and decision-usefulness of income tax disclosures, particularly in the rate reconciliation table and disclosures about income taxes paid. The amendmentsare intended to address investors’ requests for income tax disclosures that provide more information to help them better understand an entity’s exposure to potential changes in taxlaws and the ensuing risks and opportunities and to assess income tax information that aﬀects cash ﬂow forecasts and capital allocation decisions. The guidance also eliminatescertain existing disclosure requirements related to uncertain tax positions and unrecognized deferred tax liabilities. ASU 2023-09 is eﬀective for public business entities for annualperiods beginning after December 15, 2024 with early adoption permitted. All entities should apply the guidance prospectively but have the option to apply it retrospectively. TheCompany is continuing to assess the timing of adoption and the potential impacts of ASU 2023-09.
In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03-Income Statement (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses requiring disaggregated disclosures ofcertain expense captions into speciﬁed categories in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements. ASU 2024-03 is eﬀective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2026,and interim periods within annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2027. Early adoption is permitted with updates to be applied prospectively with the option forretrospective application. The Company is currently evaluating the applicable disclosures.
SEC Climate Disclosures
In March 2024, the SEC issued ﬁnal rules requiring registrants to include comprehensive climate-related disclosures in annual reports and registration statements. As adopted,the ﬁnal rules require large accelerated ﬁlers to make their ﬁrst climate-related disclosures for ﬁscal years beginning in 2025. However, in April 2024, the SEC issued an ordervoluntarily staying the eﬀectiveness of the new rules pending the completion of judicial review of certain legal challenges to their validity. In March 2025, the SEC withdrew itsdefense of the rules. The Company is currently evaluating the status of these rules and monitoring the status of the related litigation and the SEC’s stay.
Note 2. Net Sales
The following table represents the Company's net sales by product line (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Mixed-signal Microcontrollers $ 2,249.7 $ 4,272.4 $ 4,755.7 Analog 1,157.0 2,016.4 2,376.9 Other 994.9 1,345.6 1,306.1 
Total net sales $ 4,401.6 $ 7,634.4 $ 8,438.7 
The product lines listed above are included entirely in the Company's semiconductor product segment with the exception of the other product line, which includes productsfrom both the semiconductor product and technology licensing segments.
F-17
Table of Contents
The following table represents the Company's net sales by customer type (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Distributors $ 1,970.0 $ 3,620.8 $ 3,993.6 Direct customers 2,300.5 3,910.3 4,284.1 Licensees 131.1 103.3 161.0 
Total net sales $ 4,401.6 $ 7,634.4 $ 8,438.7 
Distributors are customers that buy products with the intention of reselling them. Distributors generally have a distributor agreement with the Company to govern the terms ofthe relationship. Direct customers are non-distributor customers, which generally do not have a master sales agreement with the Company. The Company's direct customersprimarily consist of OEMs and, to a lesser extent, contract manufacturers. Licensees are customers of the Company's technology licensing segment, which include purchasers ofintellectual property and customers that have licensing agreements to use the Company's SuperFlash® embedded ﬂash technology. All of the customer types listed in the table aboveare included in the Company's semiconductor product segment with the exception of licensees, which is included in the technology licensing segment. All of the Company's net salesare recognized from contracts with customers.
Semiconductor Product Segment
For contracts related to the purchase of semiconductor products, the Company satisﬁes its performance obligation when control of the ordered product transfers to thecustomer. The timing of the transfer of control depends on the agreed upon shipping terms with the customer, but generally occurs upon shipment, which is when physicalpossession of the product has been transferred and legal title of the product transfers to the customer. Payment is generally due within 30 days of the ship date. Payment is generallycollected after the Company satisﬁes its performance obligation. Also, the Company usually does not record contract assets because the Company has an unconditional right topayment upon satisfaction of the performance obligation, and therefore, a receivable is more commonly recorded than a contract asset. Refer to Note 9 for the opening and closingbalances of the Company's receivables.
The consideration received from customers is ﬁxed, with the exception of consideration from certain distributors and customers under LTSAs. Certain of the Company'sdistributors are granted price concessions and return rights, which result in variable consideration. The amount of revenue recognized for sales to these certain distributors isadjusted for estimates of the price concessions and return rights that are expected to be claimed. These estimates are based on the recent history of price concessions and stockrotations, which are recorded as refund liabilities within accrued liabilities on the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company collects amounts in advance for certain of its contracts with customers. These amounts are deferred until control of the product or service is transferred to thecustomer at which time it is recognized as revenue. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had approximately $597.9 million of deferred revenue, of which $213.4 million is includedwithin accrued liabilities and the remaining $384.5 million is included within other long-term liabilities on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. As of March 31, 2024, theCompany had approximately $933.0 million of deferred revenue, of which $261.8 million is included within accrued liabilities and the remaining $671.2 million is included withinother long-term liabilities on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Deferred revenue represents amounts that have been invoiced in advance which are expected to berecognized as revenue in future periods. Approximately $217.2 million of deferred revenue recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2024 wasrecognized as revenue during ﬁscal 2025. Approximately $126.1 million of deferred revenue recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2023 wasrecognized as revenue during ﬁscal 2024.
Of the $597.9 million of deferred revenue as of March 31, 2025, $501.5 million is cash collected from customers under LTSAs, of which $138.3 million is included within accruedliabilities and $363.2 million is included within other long-term liabilities. Under these LTSAs, the Company receives an upfront deposit from the customer in exchange for assuredsupply over the contract period, which typically ranges from three years to ﬁve years. If the customer does not meet the minimum purchase commitments deﬁned in the contract,the Company may retain all, or portions of, the deposit as revenue. If the Company fails to assure supply as deﬁned in the contract, the deposit, or portions of it, will be returned tothe customer. The transaction price for the remaining performance obligations for the LTSAs were approximately $2.52 billion as of March 31, 2025, of which approximately 28% isexpected to be recognized as net sales during the next 12 months. The amount and timing of such net sales is uncertain because it depends on the satisfaction of commitments madein the LTSAs, which may be aﬀected by the timing and amount of orders placed by customers, contract modiﬁcations, variable consideration, sales
F-18
Table of Contents
channels, and manufacturing and supply chain conditions. Accordingly, the amount may not be indicative of net sales in future periods. The remaining $96.4 million of deferredrevenue as of March 31, 2025 is related to other cash payments received from customers in advance of the Company’s performance obligations being satisﬁed. Most of the$96.4 million will be recognized as net sales within the next 12 months. The amount of other ﬁrmly committed orders with performance obligations in excess of 12 months at thetime of order is immaterial.
Technology Licensing Segment
The technology licensing segment includes sales and licensing of the Company's intellectual property. For contracts related to the sale of the Company's intellectual property, theCompany satisﬁes its performance obligation and recognizes revenue when control of the intellectual property transfers to the customer. For contracts related to the licensing of theCompany's technology, the Company satisﬁes its performance obligation and recognizes revenue as usage of the license occurs. The transaction price is ﬁxed by the licenseagreement. Payment is collected after the Company satisﬁes its performance obligation, and therefore contract liabilities are generally not recorded. The Company generally does notrecord contract assets due to the fact that the Company has an unconditional right to payment upon satisfaction of the performance obligation, and therefore, the Companyrecognizes a receivable instead of a contract asset. Refer to Note 9 for the opening and closing balances of the Company's receivables.
Note 3. Geographic and Segment Information The Company's business is made up of two operating segments, semiconductor products and technology licensing. These segments represent management's view of thebusiness for which separate ﬁnancial information is available and evaluated regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), which is the Company’s Chief Executive Oﬃcer.
In the semiconductor products segment, the Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets mixed-signal microcontrollers, development tools and analog, interface,mixed-signal, timing, wired and wireless connectivity devices, and memory products. Under the leadership of the CODM, the Company is structured and organized aroundstandardized roles and responsibilities based on product groups and functional activities. The Company's product groups are responsible for product research, design anddevelopment. The Company's functional activities include sales, marketing, manufacturing, information technology, human resources, legal and ﬁnance. The Company's productgroups have similar products, production processes, types of customers and methods for distribution. In addition, the tools and technologies used in the design and manufacture ofthe Company's products are shared among the various product groups. The Company's product group leaders, under the direction of the CODM, deﬁne the product roadmaps andteam with sales personnel to achieve design wins and revenue and other performance targets. Product group leaders also interact with manufacturing and operational personnelwho are responsible for the production, prioritization and planning of the Company's manufacturing capabilities to help ensure the eﬃciency of the Company's operations andfulﬁllment of customer requirements.
The technology licensing segment includes sales and licensing of the Company's intellectual property.
The CODM uses segment gross proﬁt for evaluating each segment's performance and allocating resources. The Company does not allocate operating expenses, interest income,interest expense, other income or expense, or provision for or beneﬁt from income taxes to these segments for internal reporting purposes, as the Company does not believe thatallocating these expenses is beneﬁcial in evaluating segment performance.  Additionally, the Company does not allocate assets to segments for internal reporting purposes as it doesnot manage its segments by such metrics.
The information that is regularly provided to the Company's CODM includes net sales, cost of sales and gross proﬁt for each segment. The following tables include net sales, costof sales and gross proﬁt for each segment (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2025Semiconductor products Technology licensing Total
Net sales $ 4,270.5 $ 131.1 $ 4,401.6 Cost of sales 1,933.7 — 1,933.7 
Gross proﬁt $ 2,336.8 $ 131.1 $ 2,467.9 
F-19
Table of Contents
Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024Semiconductor products Technology licensing Total
Net sales $ 7,531.1 $ 103.3 $ 7,634.4 Cost of sales 2,638.7 — 2,638.7 
Gross proﬁt $ 4,892.4 $ 103.3 $ 4,995.7 
Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2023
Semiconductor products Technology licensing TotalNet sales $ 8,277.7 $ 161.0 $ 8,438.7 Cost of sales 2,740.8 — 2,740.8 
Gross proﬁt $ 5,536.9 $ 161.0 $ 5,697.9 
The Company sells its products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of market segments, performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers and, as deemed necessary,may require collateral, primarily letters of credit.  The Company's operations outside the U.S. consist of product assembly and ﬁnal test facilities in Thailand, and sales and supportcenters and design centers in certain foreign countries.  Domestic operations are responsible for the design, development and wafer fabrication of products, as well as thecoordination of production planning and shipping to meet worldwide customer commitments.  The Company's Thailand assembly and test facility is reimbursed in relation to valueadded with respect to assembly and test operations and other functions performed, and certain foreign sales oﬃces receive compensation for sales within theirterritory.  Accordingly, for ﬁnancial statement purposes, it is not meaningful to segregate sales or operating proﬁts for the assembly and test and foreign sales oﬃceoperations.  Identiﬁable long-lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment net of accumulated depreciation and ROU assets) by geographic area are as follows (inmillions):
March 31,
2025 2024United States $ 869.3 $ 826.8 Thailand 123.7 152.2 Various other countries 337.0 371.9 
Total long-lived assets $ 1,330.0 $ 1,350.9 
Sales to unaﬃliated customers located outside the U.S., primarily in Asia and Europe, aggregated approximately 75%, 75% and 78% of consolidated net sales for ﬁscal 2025,ﬁscal 2024 and ﬁscal 2023, respectively. Sales to customers in Europe represented approximately 20%, 24% and 21% of consolidated net sales for ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024 and ﬁscal2023, respectively.  Sales into Germany represented approximately 10% of consolidated net sales for ﬁscal 2024. Sales to customers in Asia represented approximately 50%, 47% and53% of consolidated net sales for ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024 and ﬁscal 2023, respectively.  Within Asia, sales into China represented approximately 17%, 18%, 21% of consolidated netsales for ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024 and ﬁscal 2023, respectively. Sales into Taiwan represented approximately 16%, 12% and 14% of consolidated net sales for ﬁscal 2025, 2024 and2023, respectively. Sales into any other individual foreign country did not exceed 10% of the Company's net sales for any of the three ﬁscal years presented. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, the Company's largest distributor, which accounted for 10%, 12% and 11% of net sales in ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024, and ﬁscal 2023,respectively, no other distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in either of ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024 or ﬁscal 2023.
F-20
Table of Contents
Note 4. Net (Loss) Income Per Common Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net (loss) income per common share (in millions, except per share amounts):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Net (loss) income $ (0.5) $ 1,906.9 $ 2,237.7 Dividends on Series A Preferred Stock (2.2) — — 
Net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders (2.7) 1,906.9 2,237.7 
Basic weighted average common shares outstanding 537.3 542.0 550.4 Dilutive eﬀect of RSUs — 5.1 5.2 Dilutive eﬀect of 2015 Senior Convertible Debt — 0.2 0.6 Dilutive eﬀect of 2017 Senior Convertible Debt — 0.7 1.0 Dilutive eﬀect of 2017 Junior Convertible Debt — — 0.1 Dilutive eﬀect of Series A Preferred Stock — — — 
Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 537.3 548.0 557.3 
Basic net (loss) income per common share $ (0.01) $ 3.52 $ 4.07 
Diluted net (loss) income per common share $ (0.01) $ 3.48 $ 4.02 
The Company computed net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders by reducing net (loss) income by the dividends on Series A Preferred Stock accumulated duringthe period. The Company computed basic net (loss) income per common share based on the net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders divided by the weighted averagenumber of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company computed diluted net (loss) income per common share based on the net (loss) income attributable tocommon stockholders divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period.
Potentially dilutive common shares from employee equity incentive plans are determined by applying the treasury stock method to the assumed vesting of outstanding RSUs.Potentially dilutive common shares from the Series A Preferred Stock is determined by applying the if-converted method on the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. Prior toconversion of its Convertible Debt, the Company will include, in the diluted net income per common share calculation, the eﬀect of the additional shares that may be issued whenthe Company's common stock price exceeds the conversion price using the if-converted method. The Company's Convertible Debt has no impact on diluted net income per commonshare unless the average price of the Company's common stock exceeds the conversion price because the Company is required to settle the principal amount of the Convertible Debtin cash upon conversion. For the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025, the calculation of diluted net loss per common share excluded 4.0 million common shares from employee equityincentive plans and, 0.1 million and 0.5 million common shares issuable upon the exchange of the Company's 2015 Senior Convertible Debt and the 2017 Senior Convertible Debt,respectively, and 0.6 million common shares issuable upon the exchange of Company's Series A Preferred Stock as the related impact would have been anti-dilutive as the Companygenerated a net loss.
The following is the weighted average conversion price per share used in calculating the dilutive eﬀect (see Note 6 for details on the Convertible Debt):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 20232015 Senior Convertible Debt $ 28.49 $ 29.02 $ 29.58 2017 Senior Convertible Debt $ 44.27 $ 45.26 $ 46.14 2020 Senior Convertible Debt $ 91.08 $ 91.91 $ 92.82 2024 Senior Convertible Debt $ 121.83 $ — $ — 2017 Junior Convertible Debt $ — $ 44.81 $ 45.32 
(1)
(2)
(3)
F-21
Table of Contents
The weighted average conversion price per share for the 2015 Senior Convertible Debt was prior to the settlement of the outstanding principal amount in February 2025.The weighted average conversion price per share for the 2020 Senior Convertible Debt was prior to the settlement of the outstanding principal amount in November 2024.The weighted average conversion price per share for the 2017 Junior Convertible Debt was prior to the settlement of the outstanding principal amount in May 2023.
Note 5. Special Charges and Other, Net The following table summarizes activity included in the "Special charges (income) and other, net" caption on the Company's consolidated statements of operations (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
2025 2024 2023RestructuringEmployee separation costs $ 27.1 $ — $ — Contract exit costs 45.7 — — Other restructuring costs 3.7 6.2 16.8 Gain on sale of assets — — (2.2)Legal contingencies 1.0 (1.3) (19.4)Other 1.7 (17.2) 0.8 
Total $ 79.2 $ (12.3) $ (4.0)
In the third and fourth quarters of ﬁscal 2025, the Company announced restructuring and cost reduction measures, including closure of its Tempe, Arizona wafer fabricationfacility, a reduction in headcount at its manufacturing facilities in Oregon, Colorado Springs and the Philippines. In addition, the Company announced 10% reductions in employeeheadcount across the Company to decrease its operating expenses, and cancellation or modiﬁcation of its LTSAs with certain wafer foundries.
The Company's restructuring expenses during ﬁscal 2025 were primarily due to $45.7 million related to contract exit costs and $27.1 million related to employee separationcosts.
During ﬁscal 2024, the Company earned income primarily due to $17.2 million related to the favorable resolution of a previously accrued unclaimed property audit matter andincurred expenses of $6.2 million related to the restructuring costs of acquired and existing wafer fabrication operations to increase operational eﬃciency.
During ﬁscal 2023, the Company earned income primarily due to $19.4 million related to the favorable resolution of a previously accrued legal matter partially oﬀset by $16.8million by restructuring costs of acquired and existing wafer fabrication operations to increase operational eﬃciency.
The following is a roll forward of accrued restructuring and other exit cost charges for the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025 (in millions):
Restructuring
Employee Separation Costs Contract Exit Costs Other TotalBalance at March 31, 2024 $ — $ — $ — $ — Charges 27.1 45.7 3.7 76.5 Payments (9.9) — (3.3) (13.2)Non-cash - Other (0.1) (41.1) — (41.2)Balance at March 31, 2025 $ 17.1 $ 4.6 $ 0.4 $ 22.1 
Current $ 19.0 Non-current 3.1 
Total $ 22.1 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
F-22
Table of Contents
The liability for restructuring and other exit costs on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2025 is $22.1 million of which $19.0 million is included inaccrued liabilities and $3.1 million is included in other long-term liabilities.
Note 6. Debt
Debt obligations included in the consolidated balance sheets consisted of the following (in millions) :
Coupon InterestRate Eﬀective InterestRate March 31,2025 20242025 Term Loan Facility $ — $ 750.0 Commercial Paper 175.0 1,359.0 0.983% 2024 Notes 0.983% 1.1% — 1,000.0 4.250% 2025 Notes 4.250% 4.6% 1,200.0 1,200.0 4.900% 2028 Notes 4.900% 5.1% 1,000.0 — 5.050% 2029 Notes 5.050% 5.2% 1,000.0 1,000.0 5.050% 2030 Notes 5.050% 5.2% 1,000.0 — Total Senior Indebtedness 4,375.0 5,309.0 Senior Subordinated Convertible Debt - Principal Outstanding2015 Senior Convertible Debt 1.625% 1.8% — 6.7 2017 Senior Convertible Debt 1.625% 1.8% 38.0 38.0 2020 Senior Convertible Debt 0.125% 0.5% — 665.5 2024 Senior Convertible Debt 0.750% 1.0% 1,250.0 — Total Convertible Debt 1,288.0 710.2 
Gross long-term debt including current maturities 5,663.0 6,019.2 Less: Debt discount (13.1) (13.9)Less: Debt issuance costs (19.5) (5.5)Net long-term debt including current maturities 5,630.4 5,999.8 
Less: Current maturities — (999.4)
Net long-term debt $ 5,630.4 $ 5,000.4 
The Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at March 31, 2025 and at March 31, 2024. The 0.983% 2024 Notes matured on September 1, 2024, and prior to maturity interest accrued at a rate of 0.983% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1and September 1 of each year. The 4.250% 2025 Notes mature on September 1, 2025 and interest accrues at a rate of 4.250% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears onMarch 1 and September 1 of each year. The 4.900% 2028 Notes mature on March 15, 2028 and interest accrues at a rate of 4.900% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrearson March 15 and September 15 of each year. The 5.050% 2029 Notes mature on March 15, 2029 and interest accrues at a rate of 5.050% per annum, payable semi-annually inarrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The 5.050% 2030 Notes mature on February 15, 2030 and interest accrues at a rate of 5.050% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. All outstanding Senior Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility are senior unsecured debt.
The unamortized discount consists of the following (in millions):
March 31,
2025 2024Commercial Paper $ (0.1) $ (3.9)0.983% 2024 Notes — (0.4)4.250% 2025 Notes (1.3) (4.4)4.900% 2028 Notes (3.3) — 5.050% 2029 Notes (4.3) (5.2)5.050% 2030 Notes (4.1) — 
Total unamortized discount $ (13.1) $ (13.9)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(1) 
(2)
(3)
(4) 
F-23
Table of Contents
Debt issuance costs consist of the following (in millions):
March 31,2025 20242025 Term Loan Facility $ — $ (0.7)0.983% 2024 Notes — (0.2)4.250% 2025 Notes (0.2) (0.6)4.900% 2028 Notes (1.7) — 5.050% 2029 Notes (1.8) (2.2)5.050% 2030 Notes (1.7) — 2017 Senior Convertible Debt (0.1) (0.1)2020 Senior Convertible Debt — (1.7)2024 Senior Convertible Debt (14.0) — 
Total debt issuance costs $ (19.5) $ (5.5)
 As of March 31, 2025, the outstanding Commercial Paper which matures within the three months ending June 30, 2025, and the 4.250% 2025 Notes which matures onSeptember 1, 2025, were excluded from current maturities as the Company has the intent and ability to utilize proceeds from its Revolving Credit Facility to reﬁnance such noteson a long-term basis. As of March 31, 2024, current maturities consisted of the 0.983% 2024 Notes. As of March 31, 2024, the outstanding Commercial Paper which maturedwithin the three months ended June 30, 2024, and the 2020 Senior Convertible Debt were excluded from current maturities as the Company had the intent and ability to utilizeproceeds from its Revolving Credit Facility to reﬁnance such notes on a long-term basis. As of March 31, 2024, the 2015 Senior Convertible Debt and the 2017 Senior ConvertibleDebt were convertible and were excluded from current maturities as the Company had the intent and ability to utilize proceeds from its Revolving Credit Facility to settle theprincipal portion of its Convertible Debt upon conversion.
Expected maturities relating to the Company’s debt obligations based on the contractual maturity dates as of March 31, 2025, are as follows (in millions):
Fiscal year ending March 31, Amount2026 $ 1,375.0 2027 38.0 2028 1,000.0 2029 1,000.0 2030 1,000.0 Thereafter 1,250.0 
Total $ 5,663.0 
Ranking of Convertible Debt - Each series of Convertible Debt is an unsecured obligation which is subordinated in right of payment to the amounts outstanding under theCompany's Senior Indebtedness. The Senior Subordinated Convertible Debt is subordinated to the Senior Indebtedness; ranks senior to the Company's indebtedness that is expresslysubordinated in right of payment to it; ranks equal in right of payment to any of the Company's unsubordinated indebtedness that does not provide that it is senior to the SeniorSubordinated Convertible Debt; ranks junior in right of payment to any of the Company's secured and unsecured unsubordinated indebtedness to the extent of the value of theassets securing such indebtedness; and is structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries.
Summary of Conversion Features - On April 1, 2022, the Company irrevocably elected cash settlement for the principal amount of its Convertible Debt. Each series of ConvertibleDebt is convertible, subject to certain conditions, into cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination thereof, at the Company's election, at speciﬁed conversion rates(see table below), adjusted for certain events including the declaration of cash dividends. Except during the three-month period immediately preceding the maturity date of theapplicable series of Convertible Debt, each series of Convertible Debt is convertible only upon the occurrence of (i) such time as the closing price of the Company's common stockexceeds the applicable conversion price (see table below) by 130% for 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the lasttrading day of the immediately preceding ﬁscal quarter, (ii) during the 5 business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period, or the measurement period, in which thetrading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes of a given series for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product
(5) 
(6)
F-24
Table of Contents
of the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such trading day, or (iii) upon the occurrence of certain corporate eventsspeciﬁed in the indenture of such series of Convertible Debt. In addition, for each series, with the exception of the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, if at the time of conversion theapplicable price of the Company's common stock exceeds the applicable conversion price at such time, the applicable conversion rate will be increased by up to an additionalmaximum incremental shares rate, as determined pursuant to a formula speciﬁed in the indenture for the applicable series of Convertible Debt, and as adjusted for cash dividendspaid since the issuance of such series of Convertible Debt. However, in no event will the applicable conversion rate exceed the applicable maximum conversion rate speciﬁed in theindenture for the applicable series of Convertible Debt (see table below).
The following table sets forth the applicable conversion rates adjusted for dividends declared since issuance of such series of Convertible Debt and the applicable incrementalshare factors and maximum conversion rates as adjusted for dividends paid since the applicable issuance date:
Dividend adjusted rates as of March 31, 2025
Conversion Rate Approximate ConversionPrice Incremental Share Factor Maximum Conversion Rate
2017 Senior Convertible Debt 22.8256 $ 43.81 11.4137 32.5264 2024 Senior Convertible Debt 8.2086 $ 121.82 — 10.4659 
As of March 31, 2025, the 2017 Senior Convertible Debt and the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt were not convertible.
With the exception of the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, which may be redeemed by the Company on or after June 5, 2027, the Company may not redeem any series ofConvertible Debt prior to the relevant maturity date and no sinking fund is provided for any series of Convertible Debt. Under the terms of the applicable indenture, the Companymay repurchase any series of Convertible Debt in the open market or through privately negotiated exchange oﬀers. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as deﬁned in theapplicable indenture of such series of Convertible Debt, holders of such series may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Convertible Debt for cash at a price equalto 100% of the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
Interest expense consists of the following (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Debt issuance cost amortization $ 3.6 $ 4.5 $ 6.8 Debt discount amortization 64.8 37.5 7.2 Interest expense 172.2 147.3 179.3 Total interest expense on Senior Indebtedness 240.6 189.3 193.3 Debt issuance cost amortization 4.2 2.8 2.7 Coupon interest expense 8.9 1.7 2.9 Total interest expense on Convertible Debt 13.1 4.5 5.6 
Other interest expense 5.5 4.5 5.0 
Total interest expense $ 259.2 $ 198.3 $ 203.9 
(1)
(1)
(1) 
F-25
Table of Contents
The Company's debt settlement transactions consist of the following (in millions):
Principal Amount Settled Total Cash Consideration Net Loss on Inducements and SettlementsMarch 2025Revolving Credit Facility $ — $ — $ 1.4 February 20252015 Senior Convertible Debt $ 0.4 $ 0.4 $ — December 20242025 Term Loan Facility $ 750.0 $ 750.0 $ 0.3 November 20242020 Senior Convertible Debt $ 665.5 $ 665.5 $ — September 20240.983% 2024 Notes $ 1,000.0 $ 1,000.0 $ — February 20240.972% 2024 Notes $ 1,400.0 $ 1,400.0 $ — September 20232.670% 2023 Notes $ 1,000.0 $ 1,000.0 $ — August 20232017 Senior Convertible Debt $ 18.2 $ 42.7 $ 3.1 June 20234.333% 2023 Notes $ 1,000.0 $ 1,000.0 $ — May 20232015 Senior Convertible Debt $ 5.6 $ 18.9 $ 0.4 2017 Senior Convertible Debt $ 25.9 $ 56.3 $ 6.6 2017 Junior Convertible Debt $ 6.5 $ 14.9 $ 2.1 August 20222015 Senior Convertible Debt $ 22.0 $ 67.7 $ 1.3 2017 Senior Convertible Debt $ 14.9 $ 29.2 $ 0.8 May 20222017 Senior Convertible Debt $ 31.0 $ 65.3 $ 5.9 2017 Junior Convertible Debt $ 3.6 $ 8.2 $ 0.3 
In connection with the amendment and restatement of its Credit Agreement, the Company recognized a loss on settlement of debt of $1.4 million.The Company used cash generated from operations to ﬁnance a portion of such settlement.The Company used proceeds from the issuance of 4.900% 2028 Notes and 5.050% 2030 Notes to ﬁnance such settlement.The Company used proceeds from the issuance of Commercial Paper to ﬁnance such settlement.The Company used proceeds from the issuance of Commercial Paper and borrowings under its Revolving Credit Facility to ﬁnance such settlement.The Company used borrowings under its 2025 Term Loan Facility and its Revolving Credit Facility to ﬁnance the settlement.The Company settled portions of its convertible debt in privately negotiated transactions that are accounted for as induced conversions.The Company used borrowings under its Revolving Credit Facility to ﬁnance a portion of such settlement.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(2)(7)
(2)(7)
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
F-26
Table of Contents
Senior Credit Facilities
In November 2024, the amended and restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2021 (as amended by the ﬁrst incremental term loan amendment, dated as ofAugust 31, 2023), was amended to amend the maximum total leverage ratio ﬁnancial covenant for the quarterly periods ending on December 31, 2024 through December 31, 2025to 4.75 to 1.00.
In March 2025, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement pursuant to which the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as ofDecember 16, 2021, was amended and restated in its entirety. The Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured revolving loan facility in an aggregateprincipal amount of up to $2.25 billion in addition to certain other sublimit loans that terminates on March 25, 2030. The Credit Agreement also permits the Company, subject tocertain conditions, to add one or more incremental term loan facilities and/or increase the revolving loan commitments up to $1.00 billion subject, in each case, to the receipt ofadditional commitments from existing and/or new lenders and pro forma compliance with the ﬁnancial covenants as set forth in the Second Amended and Restated CreditAgreement.
The Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement amended the maximum total leverage ratio ﬁnancial covenant to the following: 5.50 to 1.00 for period ending March 31,2025, 5.50 to 1.00 for period ending June 30, 2025, 6.25 to 1.00 for period ending September 30, 2025, 5.75 to 1.00 for period ending December 31, 2025, 4.75 to 1.00 for periodending March 31, 2026, 4.00 to 1.00 for period ending June 30, 2026, 3.75 to 1.00 for period ending September 30, 2026, and 3.50 to 1.00 for any such period ended after theRestatement Eﬀective Date that is not a period ending during the Covenant Relief Period. The Covenant Relief Period means the period following the Restatement Eﬀective Date to(but excluding) the earlier of (a) December 31, 2026 and (b) the date in which the Total Leverage Ratio for the most recently ended ﬁscal quarter shall not exceed 3.50 to 1.00 andcertain other conditions are satisﬁed.
The revolving loans bear interest, at the Company’s option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.50%, an adjusted daily simple SOFR rate (or SONIA rate in the case ofloans denominated in pounds sterling) plus a spread of 0.875% to 1.50%, or an adjusted term SOFR or adjusted EURIBOR rate (based on one, three or six-month interest periods) plusa spread of 0.875% to 1.50%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the credit ratings for certain of the Company’s senior, unsecured debt. The base rate meansthe highest of the prime rate, the federal funds rate plus a margin equal to 0.50% and the adjusted term SOFR rate for a one-month interest period plus a margin equal to 1.00%.Interest is due and payable in arrears quarterly for loans bearing interest at the base rate and at the end of an interest period (or at each three-month interval in the case of loanswith interest periods greater than three months) in the case of loans bearing interest at the adjusted term SOFR or adjusted EURIBOR rates.
The Company's obligations under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement are guaranteed by certain of its subsidiaries meeting materiality thresholds. The SecondAmended and Restated Credit Agreement contains customary aﬃrmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict the Company and its subsidiaries' abilityto, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of substantially all assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole,make investments, make acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with aﬃliates, pay dividends or make distributions, repurchase stock and enter into restrictive agreements, ineach case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions speciﬁed in the Second Amended and Restated CreditAgreement and at the Company's election, certain of such negative covenants in the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement shall no longer apply. The Company is alsorequired to maintain compliance with a total leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio, all measured quarterly and calculated on a consolidated basis. As of March 31, 2025, theCompany was in compliance with these ﬁnancial covenants.
In August 2023, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2021, was amended by the ﬁrst incremental term loan amendment, dated as of August31, 2023. Pursuant to this amendment, the Company borrowed an aggregate principal amount of $750.0 million under the new 2025 Term Loan Facility bearing interest at theAdjusted Term SOFR Rate, plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.5%, or Alternate Base Rate, plus a margin of 0.125% to 0.5%, with a maturity date of August 31, 2025, which was fully repaidin December 2024.
Convertible Debt
In May 2024, the Company issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2024 Senior Convertible Debt and incurred issuance costs of $16.5 million. Interest on the 2024Senior Convertible Debt is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1. The 2024 Senior Convertible Debt will mature on June 1, 2030 unless redeemed, repurchasedor converted.
F-27
Table of Contents
In connection with the issuance of the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, the Company entered into capped call option transactions with several ﬁnancial institutions at a cost of$105.0 million. The capped call options cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the Company's common stock initially underlying the 2024 SeniorConvertible Debt. Upon conversion of the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, the Company may exercise the capped call options subject to a cap price of $167.23 per share, subject tocertain adjustments under the terms of the capped call options, which are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution to the Company's common stock upon conversion ofthe 2024 Senior Convertible Debt and/or oﬀset any cash payments the Company is required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted 2024 Senior Convertible Debt.Upon conversion of the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt, there will be no economic dilution from the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt until the average market price of the Company'scommon stock exceeds the cap price of $167.23 per share as the exercise of the capped call options will oﬀset any dilution from the 2024 Senior Convertible Debt from theconversion price up to the cap price. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the capped call options are recorded as a reduction of stockholders' equity and are notaccounted for as derivatives.
Commercial Paper
In September 2023, the Company established a Commercial Paper program under which the Company may issue short-term unsecured promissory notes up to a maximumprincipal amount outstanding at any time of $2.75 billion with a maturity of up to 397 days from the date of issue. The Company's obligations with respect to the payment of theCommercial Paper are guaranteed by certain of its subsidiaries. The Commercial Paper will be sold at a discount from par or alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest ratesthat will vary based on market conditions and the time of issuance. The Company's intention is to reduce the amounts that would otherwise be available to borrow under theCompany's Revolving Credit Facility by the outstanding amount of Commercial Paper. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had $175.0 million of principal amount of CommercialPaper outstanding. The weighted-average interest rate of the Company's outstanding Commercial Paper was 4.58% as of March 31, 2025. Pursuant to the Second Amended andRestated Credit Agreement in March 2025, the maximum principal amount outstanding at any time under the Commercial Paper program was updated to $2.25 billion.
Senior Notes
The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the applicable series of Senior Notes in the manner set forth in the indenture governing the applicable series of SeniorNotes. If the Company experiences a speciﬁc change of control triggering event set forth in the indenture governing the applicable series of Senior Notes, the Company must oﬀer torepurchase each of the notes of such series at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of each of the notes of such series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any,but excluding, the repurchase date.
Each indenture governing the applicable series of Senior Notes contain certain customary aﬃrmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict theCompany and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, create or incur certain liens, and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and consolidate with or merge with or into,or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its assets, to another person. These covenants are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the indenturegoverning the applicable series of Senior Notes.
Each series of Senior Notes is guaranteed by certain of the Company's subsidiaries that have also guaranteed the obligation under the Second Amended and Restated CreditAgreement and the Company's existing Senior Indebtedness. In the future, each subsidiary of the Company that is a guarantor or other obligor of the Second Amended and RestatedCredit Agreement is required to guarantee each series of Senior Notes.
4.900% 2028 Notes and 5.050% 2030 Notes
In December 2024, the Company issued $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.900% 2028 Notes and $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.050% 2030 Notes in apublic oﬀering. In connection with the issuance of the 4.900% 2028 Notes and 5.050% 2030 Notes, the Company incurred issuance costs of approximately $1.8 million for each seriesof notes and recorded a debt discount of $3.6 million and $4.3 million, respectively, which includes fees deducted from the proceeds, which will both be amortized using the eﬀectiveinterest method over the term of the debts.
The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the 4.900% 2028 Notes at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) the sum of the present values of theremaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted as deﬁned in the indenture governing the terms of the 4.900% 2028 Notes (the 4.900% 2028 Notes Indenture),plus 15 basis points less interest accrued to the date of redemption, and (b) 100% of the principal amount of the 4.900% 2028 Notes to be redeemed, plus, in either case, accruedand unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
F-28
Table of Contents
Prior to January 15, 2030 (Par Call Date) the Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the 5.050% 2030 Notes at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) the sumof the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted as deﬁned in the indenture governing the terms of the 5.050% 2030 Notes (the5.050% 2030 Notes Indenture), plus 15 basis points less interest accrued to the date of redemption, and (b) 100% of the principal amount of the 5.050% 2030 Notes to be redeemed,plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest, but excluding, the redemption date. On or after the Par Call Date, the Company may redeem the 5.050% 2030 Notes, in whole or inpart, at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 5.050% 2030 Notes being redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, theredemption date.
If the Company experiences a speciﬁc change of control triggering event with respect to the 4.900% 2028 Notes or the 5.050% 2030 Notes, as applicable, the Company mustoﬀer to repurchase such 4.900% 2028 Notes or 5.050% 2030 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interestto, but excluding, the repurchase date.
The 4.900% 2028 Notes Indenture and the 5.050% 2030 Notes Indenture contain certain customary aﬃrmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrictthe Company and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, create or incur certain liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and consolidate with or merge with or into,or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its assets. These covenants are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the 4.900% 2028 Notes Indentureand the 5.050% 2030 Notes Indenture.
The 4.900% 2028 Notes and 5.050% 2030 Notes are guaranteed by certain of the Company's subsidiaries that have also guaranteed the obligation under the Second Amendedand Restated Credit Agreement.
Note 7. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.  Assuch, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.  As a basis forconsidering such assumptions, the Company utilizes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:
Level 1- Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets;Level 2- Inputs, other than the quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly; andLevel 3- Unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions. The carrying amount of cash equivalents, which include money market funds, approximates fair value because their maturity is less than three months. The Company held$491.1 million of cash and cash equivalents in the form of money-market funds as of March 31, 2025. The amount of cash and cash equivalents held by the Company in the form ofmoney-market funds as of March 31, 2024 was not material. The carrying amount of accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to theshort-term maturity of the amounts and are considered Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
The fair value of the Company's 2025 Term Loan Facility, and the Commercial Paper, is estimated using discounted cash ﬂow analysis, based on the Company's currentincremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Based on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank loans with similar terms andaverage maturities, the fair value of the Company's Commercial Paper at March 31, 2025 approximated the carrying value excluding debt discounts and debt issuance costs and areconsidered Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The Company measures the fair value of its Convertible Debt and Senior Notes for disclosure purposes. These fair values are based onobservable market prices for this debt, which is traded in less active markets and are therefore classiﬁed as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
F-29
Table of Contents
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's debt obligations (in millions):
March 31,2025 2024Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value2025 Term Loan Facility $ — $ — $ 749.3 $ 750.0 Commercial Paper 174.9 175.0 1,355.1 1,359.0 0.983% 2024 Notes — — 999.4 979.6 4.250% 2025 Notes 1,198.5 1,196.9 1,195.0 1,181.8 4.900% 2028 Notes 995.0 1,002.5 — — 5.050% 2029 Notes 993.9 1,005.8 992.6 1,000.6 5.050% 2030 Notes 994.2 996.9 — — 2015 Senior Convertible Debt — — 6.7 25.6 2017 Senior Convertible Debt 37.9 57.7 37.9 101.3 2020 Senior Convertible Debt — — 663.8 708.8 2024 Senior Convertible Debt 1,236.0 1,173.4 — — 
Total $ 5,630.4 $ 5,608.2 $ 5,999.8 $ 6,106.7 
The carrying amounts presented are net of debt discounts and debt issuance costs (see Note 6 for further information).
Note 8. Intangible Assets and Goodwill
Net amounts excluding fully amortized intangible assets, consist of the following (in millions):
March 31, 2025Gross Amount Accumulated Amortization Net AmountCore and developed technology $ 7,149.9 $ (4,981.6) $ 2,168.3 Customer-related 199.5 (152.8) 46.7 In-process research and development 50.8 — 50.8 Software licenses 259.3 (136.1) 123.2 
Total $ 7,659.5 $ (5,270.5) $ 2,389.0 
March 31, 2024Gross Amount Accumulated Amortization Net AmountCore and developed technology $ 7,221.3 $ (4,590.9) $ 2,630.4 Customer-related 196.7 (140.8) 55.9 Software licenses 230.7 (135.2) 95.5 
Total $ 7,648.7 $ (4,866.9) $ 2,781.8 
During the twelve months ended March 31, 2025, due to acquisitions, the Company acquired $50.8 million of in-process research and development, $2.8 million of customer-related intangible assets, and $1.1 million of software licenses intangible assets. The following is an expected amortization schedule for the intangible assets for the ﬁscal 2026through ﬁscal 2030, absent any future acquisitions or impairment charges (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Amortization Expense2026 $ 520.8 2027 $ 423.7 2028 $ 313.9 2029 $ 240.4 2030 $ 236.7 
(1) (1)
(1) 
F-30
Table of Contents
The Company amortizes intangible assets over their expected useful lives, which range between 1 and 15 years. Amortization expense attributed to intangible assets areassigned to cost of sales and operating expenses as follows (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Amortization expense charged to cost of sales $ 18.5 $ 12.2 $ 15.8 Amortization expense charged to operating expense 565.8 676.9 737.9 
Total amortization expense $ 584.3 $ 689.1 $ 753.7 
Goodwill activity by segment was as follows (in millions):
 Semiconductor ProductsReporting Unit Technology LicensingReporting UnitBalance at March 31, 2023 $ 6,654.4 $ 19.2 Additions 1.8 — Balance at March 31, 2024 $ 6,656.2 $ 19.2 Additions 9.4 — 
Balance at March 31, 2025 $ 6,665.6 $ 19.2 
At March 31, 2025, the Company applied a qualitative goodwill impairment test to its two reporting units, and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. Through March 31,2025, the Company has never recorded a goodwill impairment charge.
Note 9. Other Financial Statement Details
Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable consists of the following (in millions):
 March 31, March 31,2025 2024Trade accounts receivable $ 684.1 $ 1,141.7 Other 11.5 10.1 Total accounts receivable, gross 695.6 1,151.8 Less: allowance for expected credit losses 5.9 8.1 
Total accounts receivable, net $ 689.7 $ 1,143.7 
The Company had a program to sell certain of its trade accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to a third-party ﬁnancial institution pursuant to a factoring arrangement. TheCompany accounted for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash ﬂows.Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring arrangement were $64.9 million in ﬁscal 2024. The Company terminated this program in September 2024.
Inventories
The components of inventories consist of the following (in millions):
 March 31, March 31,2025 2024Raw materials $ 174.8 $ 184.0 Work in process 857.6 797.5 Finished goods 261.1 334.5 
Total inventories $ 1,293.5 $ 1,316.0 
F-31
Table of Contents
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment consists of the following (in millions):
 March 31, March 31,2025 2024Land $ 84.8 $ 89.3 Building and building improvements 705.9 796.3 Machinery and equipment 2,311.3 2,778.1 Projects in process 424.1 349.6 Total property, plant and equipment, gross 3,526.1 4,013.3 Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization 2,342.4 2,818.7 
Total property, plant and equipment, net $ 1,183.7 $ 1,194.6 
 Depreciation expense attributed to property, plant and equipment was $165.8 million, $190.4 million and $244.7 million for the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2025, 2024 and2023, respectively. The changes in depreciation expense in the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2025, and 2024, includes the impact of lower production levels, slowing business activityand delays in placing assets into service. As of March 31, 2025, the Company recorded $46.4 million of capital-related grants for qualifying capital expenditures as a reduction toproperty, plant and equipment, compared to $126.5 million as of March 31, 2024. The change in the amounts recorded for capital-related grants in the ﬁscal year ended March 31,2025 compared to ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2024 was because the credits are no longer reasonably assured of being earned based on the delays in placing assets into service. Therelease involved reclassifying balances from other assets to property, plant and equipment and the eﬀect to the statement of operations was immaterial.
The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets maynot be recoverable. For each of the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, the Company’s evaluation of its property, plant and equipment did not result in any materialimpairments.
Accrued Liabilities
Accrued liabilities consists of the following (in millions):
 March 31, March 31,2025 2024Accrued compensation and beneﬁts $ 108.1 $ 117.8 Income taxes payable 99.1 90.8 Deferred revenue 213.4 261.8 Sales related reserves 329.7 580.6 Current portion of lease liabilities 35.7 32.6 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 208.5 223.4 
Total accrued liabilities $ 994.5 $ 1,307.0 
Note 10. Leases
Operating lease arrangements are comprised primarily of real estate and equipment agreements for which the ROU assets are included in other assets and the correspondinglease liabilities, depending on their maturity, are included in accrued liabilities or other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. There are certain immaterial ﬁnanceleases recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
F-32
Table of Contents
The Company's leases are included as a component of the following balance sheet lines (in millions):
March 31,2025 2024Other assets:ROU assets $ 146.3 $ 156.3 
Total lease assets $ 146.3 $ 156.3 
Accrued liabilities:Current portion of lease liabilities $ 35.7 $ 32.6 Other long-term liabilities:Non-current portion of lease liabilities 115.1 128.7 
Total lease liabilities $ 150.8 $ 161.3 
The following table presents the maturities of lease liabilities as of March 31, 2025 (in millions):
Fiscal year ending March 31, Operating Leases
2026 $ 43.0 2027 39.7 2028 28.8 2029 18.7 2030 15.5 Thereafter 25.2 
Total lease payments 170.9 Less: Imputed lease interests 20.1 
Total lease liabilities $ 150.8 
The Company's weighted-average remaining lease-term and weighted-average discount rate at March 31, 2025 are as follows:
Weighted average remaining lease-term (years) 4.90Weighted average discount rate 4.55 %
The Company's total lease expense is as follows (in millions):
 Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Operating lease expense $ 61.8 $ 60.4 $ 56.6 
Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies
Purchase Commitments
The Company's purchase commitments primarily consist of agreements for the purchase of goods and services including wafer purchase obligations with the Company's waferfoundries, and manufacturing supply capacity reservation commitments.
Total purchase commitments as of March 31, 2025, are as follows (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Purchase Commitments2026 $ 221.6 2027 129.9 2028 112.5 2029 64.3 2030 70.5 Thereafter 72.1 
Total $ 670.9 
F-33
Table of Contents
Indemniﬁcation Contingencies
The Company's technology license agreements generally include an indemniﬁcation clause that indemniﬁes the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defensecosts) arising from any claims of patent, copyright, trademark or trade secret infringement by the Company's proprietary technology.  The terms of these indemniﬁcation provisionsapproximate the terms of the outgoing technology license agreements, which are typically perpetual unless terminated by either party for breach. The possible amount of futurepayments the Company could be required to make based on agreements that specify indemniﬁcation limits, if such indemniﬁcations were required on all of these agreements, isapproximately $195.0 million. There are some licensing agreements in place that do not specify indemniﬁcation limits. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had not recorded anyliabilities related to these indemniﬁcation obligations and the Company believes that any amounts that it may be required to pay under these agreements in the future will not havea material adverse eﬀect on its ﬁnancial position, cash ﬂows or results of operations.
Warranty Costs and Product Liabilities
The Company accrues for known product-related claims if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. During the periods presented, there have been no materialaccruals or payments regarding product warranty or product liability. Historically, the Company has experienced a low rate of payments on product claims. Although the Companycannot predict the likelihood or amount of any future claims, the Company does not believe these claims will have a material adverse eﬀect on its ﬁnancial condition, results ofoperations or liquidity.
Legal Matters
In the ordinary course of the Company's business, it is exposed to various legal actions as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims, pricing or royalty disputes withcustomers and licensees, governmental investigations and other matters. The Company is involved in a limited number of these legal actions, both as plaintiﬀ and defendant, withrespect to the foregoing types of matters. Consequently, the Company could incur uninsured liability in any of these legal actions.  The Company also periodically receivesnotiﬁcations from various third parties alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights, or from customers requesting reimbursement for various costs. Withrespect to pending legal actions to which the Company is a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable, the Company believes that the ultimateresolution of these matters (other than certain tax matters in the U.S., Germany, and Malaysia as described in Note 12 below) will not have a material adverse eﬀect on its ﬁnancialposition, cash ﬂows or results of operations. Litigation, governmental investigations and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and the Company is,from time to time, subject to such litigation, governmental investigations and disputes.  As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any suchlitigation, governmental investigations or disputes in the future.
The Company accrues for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable. As of the end of each applicable reporting period, the Companyreviews each of its matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, the Company accrues for all probable and reasonably estimable losses. Where theCompany can reasonably estimate a range of losses it may incur regarding such a matter, the Company records an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes its bestestimate. If the Company can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, the Company uses the amount that is thelow end of such range. As of March 31, 2025, the Company's estimate of the aggregate potential liability for legal matters that is possible but not probable is approximately$25.0 million in excess of amounts accrued.
F-34
Table of Contents
Note 12. Income Taxes The income tax provision (beneﬁt) consists of the following (amounts in millions):
 Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 2025 2024 2023Income before income taxes:U.S. $ (131.5) $ 555.5 $ 674.7 Foreign 170.4 1,810.4 2,235.0 
Total income before income taxes $ 38.9 $ 2,365.9 $ 2,909.7 
Current provision:    U.S. Federal $ 127.5 $ 347.5 $ 389.5 State — 20.0 5.0 Foreign 55.2 118.7 72.0 
Total current provision $ 182.7 $ 486.2 $ 466.5 Deferred provision (beneﬁt):    U.S. Federal $ (101.0) $ (106.4) $ 53.7 State (5.5) (12.3) 4.6 Foreign (36.8) 91.5 147.2 
Total deferred provision (beneﬁt) (143.3) (27.2) 205.5 
Income tax provision $ 39.4 $ 459.0 $ 672.0 
The provision (beneﬁt) for income taxes diﬀers from the amount computed by applying the statutory federal tax rate to income before income taxes.  The sources and tax eﬀectsof the diﬀerences in the total income tax provision are as follows (amounts in millions):
 Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 2025 2024 2023Computed expected income tax provision $ 8.2 $ 496.8 $ 611.0 State income taxes, net of federal beneﬁt (2.1) 15.7 8.6 Eﬀects of foreign operations - rate diﬀerential (19.2) (149.3) (184.0)Eﬀects of foreign operations - other, net of foreign tax credits 55.0 212.2 258.9 Foreign-derived intangible income (FDII) (3.1) (3.6) — Business realignment of intellectual property rights 5.7 0.4 — Change in uncertain tax positions 45.1 5.8 50.6 Share-based compensation (14.1) (8.4) (11.4)R&D tax credits (60.1) (69.8) (63.8)Income tax holidays (12.0) (22.5) (26.7)Nondeductible Expenses 6.0 7.7 9.4 Other 13.4 2.6 10.3 Change in valuation allowance 16.6 (28.6) 9.1 
Income tax provision $ 39.4 $ 459.0 $ 672.0 
The foreign tax rate diﬀerential beneﬁt primarily relates to the Company's operations in Malta and Ireland. The Company's Thailand manufacturing operations are currentlysubject to numerous tax holidays granted to the Company based on its investment in property, plant, and equipment in Thailand. The Company's tax holiday periods in Thailandexpire between ﬁscal 2026 and 2033, however, the Company actively seeks to obtain new tax holidays. The Company does not expect the future expiration of any of its tax holidayperiods in Thailand to have a material impact on its eﬀective tax rate. The aggregate dollar beneﬁt derived from these tax holidays approximated $12.0 million, $22.5 million, and$26.7 million in ﬁscal 2025, ﬁscal 2024, and ﬁscal 2023, respectively. The impact of the tax holidays increased each of the basic and diluted net income per common share by $0.02 inﬁscal 2025, $0.04 in ﬁscal 2024, and $0.05 in ﬁscal 2023.
F-35
Table of Contents
The tax eﬀects of temporary diﬀerences that give rise to signiﬁcant portions of the Company's deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows (amounts in millions):
 March 31, 2025 2024Deferred tax assets:   Accrued expenses $ 51.8 $ 50.2 Capital loss carryforward 9.8 10.5 Disallowed expense carryforwards 242.8 97.8 Income tax credits 266.8 267.8 Intangible assets 1,192.1 1,277.0 Inventory valuation 130.4 72.0 Lease liabilities 33.2 36.2 Net operating loss carryforward 59.3 64.8 Share-based compensation 53.5 40.6 Other 25.6 15.5 Gross deferred tax assets 2,065.3 1,932.4 Valuation allowances (287.4) (270.8)
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances 1,777.9 1,661.6 Deferred tax liabilities:   Intangible assets (50.3) (59.0)ROU assets (31.7) (34.5)Property, plant and equipment (1.6) (0.4)
Deferred tax liabilities (83.6) (93.9)
Net deferred tax asset $ 1,694.3 $ 1,567.7 
Reported as:Non-current deferred tax assets $ 1,728.1 $ 1,596.5 Non-current deferred tax liability (33.8) (28.8)
Net deferred tax asset $ 1,694.3 $ 1,567.7 
 In assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will be realized, the Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, including itsrecent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future available taxable income of the appropriate character by taxing jurisdiction, tax attribute carryback andcarryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.
 Additions and deductions related to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for the three ﬁscal years were as follows (amounts in millions):
Balance at Beginning ofYear Additions Charged toCosts and Expenses Deductions Balance at End of YearFiscal 2025 $ 270.8 $ 22.2 $ (5.6) $ 287.4 Fiscal 2024 $ 299.4 $ 6.5 $ (35.1) $ 270.8 Fiscal 2023 $ 290.3 $ 19.3 $ (10.2) $ 299.4 
The Company had federal, state and foreign net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards with an estimated tax eﬀect of $59.3 million available at March 31, 2025, which expire atvarious times between ﬁscal 2026 and ﬁscal 2045, of which a portion of the NOL carryforwards do not expire. The Company had capital loss carryforwards with an estimated taxeﬀect of $9.8 million available at March 31, 2025, which begin to expire in ﬁscal 2026. The Company had federal, state and foreign credits of $257.3 million available at March 31,2025, which begin to expire in ﬁscal 2026. The Company had refundable tax credits in foreign jurisdictions of $9.5 million available at March 31, 2025. The Company had disallowedexpense carryforwards with an estimated tax eﬀect of $242.8 million available at March 31, 2025. These expense carryforwards do not expire.
The enactment of the TCJA imposed a tax on all previously untaxed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of U.S. corporations. Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which theCompany's cash is at any given point in time no longer has a signiﬁcant impact on the Company's liquidity.  The Company intends to invest substantially all of the Company's foreignsubsidiary earnings, as
F-36
Table of Contents
well as the Company's capital in the Company's foreign subsidiaries, indeﬁnitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which the Company would incur signiﬁcant, additionalcosts upon repatriation of such amounts. It is not practical to estimate the additional tax that would be incurred, if any, if the permanently reinvested earnings were repatriated.
During ﬁscal 2018, the Company recognized a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, of which the Company expected cash payments ofapproximately $293.6 million. This tax is payable over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax payable each year for ﬁscal 2019 through ﬁscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and25%, respectively, payable during ﬁscal 2024, ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2026. As of March 31, 2025, the Company's transition tax payable was $73.4 million, which is payable within thenext 12 months and is included within accrued liabilities.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax beneﬁts through income tax expense. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. andnumerous foreign jurisdictions.  The Company ﬁles U.S. federal, U.S. state, and foreign income tax returns.  For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, the ﬁscal 2007and later tax years remain eﬀectively open for examination by tax authorities.  For foreign tax returns, the Company is generally no longer subject to income tax examinations foryears prior to ﬁscal 2007. Signiﬁcant judgment is required in evaluating the Company's uncertain tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes.  Although the Company believes that it hasappropriately reserved for its uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters will not be diﬀerent than expectations.  The Company willadjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, tax litigation, interaction with taxing authorities, the closing of a statutory auditperiod or changes in applicable tax law.  To the extent that the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is diﬀerent than the amounts recorded, such diﬀerences would impact the provisionfor income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.  The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to the reserves that areconsidered appropriate, as well as related net interest.
The Company recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other domestic and international tax jurisdictions based on its estimate of whether, and theextent to which, the tax positions are more likely than not to be sustained based on the technical merits.  The Company believes that it has appropriate support for the income taxpositions taken and to be taken on its tax returns and that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years based on an assessment of many factors including pastexperience and interpretations of tax laws applied to the facts of each matter.  
The Company believes it maintains appropriate reserves to oﬀset potential income tax liabilities for positions that are not more than likely than not to be sustained upon ﬁnalresolution of matters for open tax years. If such reserve amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves could result in tax beneﬁts beingrecorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary.  If such amounts prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded inthe period in which the assessment is determined. 
The following table summarizes the activity related to the Company's gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts for the three ﬁscal years (amounts in millions): 
 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2025 2024 2023Beginning gross unrecognized tax beneﬁt $ 792.4 $ 848.0 $ 804.1 Decreases related to settlements with tax authorities (0.7) (5.8) (0.4)Decreases related to statute of limitation expirations (6.9) (3.3) (11.7)Increases related to current year tax positions 27.1 37.4 65.9 Increases (decreases) related to prior year tax positions 9.3 (83.9) (9.9)
Ending gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts $ 821.2 $ 792.4 $ 848.0 
 As of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Company had accrued interest and penalties related to tax contingencies of $135.8 million and $104.6 million, respectively,included within long-term income tax payable on the consolidated balance sheets. During the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2025, March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2023 interest andpenalties charged to operations were $31.2 million, $24.2 million, and $7.6 million, respectively.
The Company is currently under income tax examination in various tax jurisdictions in which it operates. The years under examination range from ﬁscal 2007 through ﬁscal 2024.In some jurisdictions, the Company has received tax assessments in excess of established reserves. The Company is contesting these tax assessments, and will continue to do so,including
F-37
Table of Contents
pursuing all available remedies such as appeals and litigation, if necessary. During ﬁscal 2025, additional assessments were received for these issues and the Company’s positionremains unchanged.
The total amount of gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts was $821.2 million and $792.4 million as of March 31, 2025, and March 31, 2024, respectively, of which $706.4 million and$682.4 million is estimated to impact the Company's eﬀective tax rate, if recognized. Unrecognized tax beneﬁts may change in the next 12 months due to expiration of statutes oflimitation, changes in the Company’s judgment about the level of uncertainty arising from new information, status of tax examinations, tax litigation, and legislative changes. TheCompany is unable to reasonably estimate the change in the unrecognized tax beneﬁts in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S.matters.
In September 2021, the Company received a Statutory Notice of Deﬁciency (2007 to 2012 Notice) from the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for ﬁscal 2007 throughﬁscal 2012. The disputed amounts largely relate to transfer pricing matters. In December 2021, the Company ﬁled a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2007 to 2012Notice. In September 2023, the Company received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) from the IRS for ﬁscal 2013 and ﬁscal 2016. In October 2023, the Company received a StatutoryNotice of Deﬁciency (2014 to 2015 Notice) from the IRS for ﬁscal 2014 and ﬁscal 2015. The disputed amounts for ﬁscal 2013 to ﬁscal 2016 largely relate to transfer pricing matters. InDecember 2023, the Company ﬁled a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2014 to 2015 Notice.
In May 2023, the Company received a proposed income adjustment from the Malaysian Inland Revenue Board (IRB) for ﬁscal 2020. In December 2023, the Company received aNotice of Assessment from the IRB asserting the same proposed income adjustment. In March 2025, the Company entered into a Consent Judgment before the High Court, agreeingthat the dispute will be heard before the Special Commissioners of Income Tax (SCIT). It was also agreed that the payment on the taxes assessed is stayed and the IRB will pause allenforcement and proceedings against the collection of the taxes assessed until the appeal before the SCIT is concluded. If the adjustment is upheld by the highest court that hasjurisdiction over this matter in Malaysia, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $410.0 million. The disputed amounts largely relate to the characterization of certainassets. The timing of adjudicating this matter is uncertain but could commence in the next 12 months.
In January 2025, the Company received several assessments from the German Tax Authorities (GTA) regarding the German extraterritorial taxation of royalty payments betweennonresidents (referred to as oﬀshore receipts in respect of intangible property or ORIP) and intellectual property transfers by nonresidents (referred to as extraterritorial capital gainstaxation or ETT). If the assessment is upheld, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $92.0 million. The timing of adjudicating this matter is uncertain but could occur inthe next 12 months.
The Company ﬁrmly believes that the assessments described above are without merit and plans to pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary to resolvethese matters. The Company intends to vigorously defend its positions and the Company is conﬁdent in its ability to prevail on the merits. The Company regularly assesses thelikelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from examinations such as these to determine the adequacy of the Company's tax reserves. The ultimate outcome of disputes of this natureis uncertain, and if the IRS, IRB, and GTA were to prevail on their assertions, the assessed tax, penalties, and deﬁciency interest could have a material adverse impact on theCompany's ﬁnancial position, results of operations or cash ﬂows.
Note 13. Employee Beneﬁt Plans
Deﬁned Beneﬁt Plans
The Company has deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans that cover certain of its foreign employees. Most of these deﬁned pension plans, which were acquired in prior acquisitions, areunfunded. Plan beneﬁts are provided in accordance with local statutory requirements and are based on years of service and employee compensation levels.
The change in projected beneﬁt obligation and the accumulated beneﬁt obligation was immaterial for ﬁscal 2025 and ﬁscal 2024. As of March 31, 2025, the Company hasrecorded $74.5 million related to the pension plans in the consolidated balance sheets.
F-38
Table of Contents
Future estimated expected beneﬁt payments for ﬁscal year 2026 through 2035 are as follows (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Amount2026 $ 11.2 2027 6.7 2028 6.0 2029 6.9 2030 6.9 2031 through 2035 46.2 
Total $ 83.9 
Note 14. Share-Based Compensation Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents the details of the Company's share-based compensation expense (in millions):
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,2025 2024 2023Cost of sales $ 21.8 $ 25.6 $ 27.2 Research and development 104.6 94.3 83.1 Selling, general and administrative 54.0 57.6 60.1 Pre-tax eﬀect of share-based compensation 180.4 177.5 170.4 Income tax beneﬁt 37.9 37.5 36.4 
Net income eﬀect of share-based compensation $ 142.5 $ 140.0 $ 134.0 
  During the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025, $17.4 million of share-based compensation expense was capitalized to inventory and $21.8 million of previously capitalizedshare-based compensation expense in inventory was sold. During the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2024, $19.0 million of share-based compensation expense was capitalized toinventory and $25.6 million of previously capitalized share-based compensation expense in inventory was sold. During the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2023, $19.7 million ofshare-based compensation expense was capitalized to inventory and $27.2 million of previously capitalized share-based compensation expense in inventory was sold.
Incentive Plans
The Company has granted RSUs to employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors under the Company’s 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2004 plan). TheCompany grants RSUs with a service condition and PSUs under the 2004 plan. Under the 2004 plan, 72,389,717 shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance and10,843,385 shares of common stock remain available for future grants as of March 31, 2025.
Restricted Stock Units
The Company uses RSUs with a service condition as its primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
(1)
(1)
F-39
Table of Contents
RSUs share activity is set forth below:
Number ofShares Weighted Average GrantDate Fair ValueNonvested shares at March 31, 2022 9,848,955 $ 52.74 Granted 3,054,320 $ 61.76 Forfeited (815,738) $ 55.14 Vested (3,423,935) $ 45.08 Nonvested shares at March 31, 2023 8,663,602 $ 58.72 Granted 2,535,772 $ 77.28 Forfeited (474,397) $ 64.37 Vested (2,510,781) $ 48.56 Nonvested shares at March 31, 2024 8,214,196 $ 67.22 Granted 4,921,190 $ 70.74 Forfeited (1,191,134) $ 71.27 Vested (2,365,815) $ 60.12 
Nonvested shares at March 31, 2025 9,578,437 $ 70.28 
The total intrinsic value of RSUs which vested during the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023 was $176.2 million, $201.4 million and $256.3 million,respectively.  The aggregate intrinsic value of RSUs outstanding at March 31, 2025 was $463.7 million, calculated based on the closing price of the Company's common stock of$48.41 per share on March 31, 2025.
The amount of unearned share-based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in ﬁscal 2026 through ﬁscal 2030 related to unvested RSUs at March 31, 2025 is $414.3million.  The weighted average period over which the unearned RSUs compensation is expected to be recognized is approximately 2.16 years.
Performance Stock Units
The Company has granted performance-based PSUs to a group of executive oﬃcers and employees. For the performance-based PSUs, the number of shares of the Company'scommon stock expected to vest will range from 0% to 200% of the target grant amount based on the Company's two-year or three-year cumulative non-GAAP operating marginpercentage. Prior to ﬁscal 2023, the Company granted market-based PSUs to executive oﬃcers. For the market-based PSUs, the number of shares of the Company's common stockexpected to be received at vesting will range from 0% to 200% of the target grant amount based on the total shareholder return (TSR) of the Company's common stock measuredagainst the TSR of a deﬁned peer group of companies over the applicable two-year or three-year measurement period. TSR is a measure of the stock price appreciation plus anydividends paid in the performance period.
PSUs share activity is set forth below:
Number ofShares Weighted Average GrantDate Fair ValueNonvested shares at March 31, 2022 257,060 $ 74.76 Granted 172,334 $ 60.88 Forfeited (48,524) $ 66.71 Vested — $ — Nonvested shares at March 31, 2023 380,870 $ 69.51 Granted 123,747 $ 77.61 Forfeited (2,883) $ 100.20 Vested — $ — Nonvested shares at March 31, 2024 501,734 $ 71.33 Granted 183,304 $ 71.92 Forfeited (207,481) $ 72.21 Vested (159,293) $ 70.71 
Nonvested shares at March 31, 2025 318,264 $ 71.45 
F-40
Table of Contents
The aggregate intrinsic value of PSUs outstanding at March 31, 2025 was $15.4 million, calculated based on the closing price of the Company's common stock of $48.41 pershare on March 31, 2025.
The amount of unearned share-based compensation currently estimated to be expensed in ﬁscal 2026 through ﬁscal 2030 related to unvested PSUs at March 31, 2025 is $7.8million.  The weighted average period over which the unearned PSUs compensation is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.93 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Company’s 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the 1994 International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (collectively referred to as the employee stock purchase plans)allows eligible employees to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at 85% of the value of its common stock on speciﬁc dates. Since the inception of the employee stockpurchase plans, 36,088,751 shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance and 8,115,202 shares remain available for future purchases as of March 31, 2025.
Employees purchased 1,102,689 shares of common stock in the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025 for an aggregate purchase price of $65.5 million under the employee stockpurchase plans compared to 1,375,324 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $81.7 million in the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2024 and 1,424,850 shares ofcommon stock for a purchase price of $81.2 million in the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2025, unrecognized share-based compensation costs related to theemployee stock plans totaled $6.6 million, which will be recognized over a period of approximately ﬁve months.
Note 15. Stockholders' Equity
Changes in Share Balances
The following table shows the changes in each class of shares (in millions):
Series A Preferred Stock Common Stock Treasury StockBalance at March 31, 2022 — 577.8 23.3 Repurchase of common stock — — 12.9 Common stock issued under employee equity incentive plans — 4.9 — Common stock withheld for tax withholdings on employee equity awards — (1.0) — Treasury stock used for new issuances — (3.9) (3.9)Balance at March 31, 2023 — 577.8 32.3 Repurchase of common stock — — 11.9 Common stock issued under employee equity incentive plans — 4.0 — Common stock withheld for tax withholdings on employee equity awards — (0.9) — Treasury stock used for new issuances — (3.1) (3.1)
Balance at March 31, 2024 — 577.8 41.1 Repurchase of common stock — — 1.0 Issuance of Series A Preferred Stock 1.5 — — Common stock issued under employee equity incentive plans — 3.6 — Common stock withheld for tax withholdings on employee equity awards — (0.8) — Treasury stock used for new issuances — (2.8) (2.8)Shares issued to settle convertible debt — 0.2 — 
Balance at March 31, 2025 1.5 578.0 39.3 
F-41
Table of Contents
Treasury Stock
In November 2021, the Company's Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $4.00 billion of the Company's common stock in the openmarket or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date associated with the repurchase program. During the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2025, the Companypurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of its common stock for a total cost of $89.6 million, including the 1% excise tax on stock repurchases enacted by the Inﬂation ReductionAct of 2022 (Inﬂation Reduction Act), compared to approximately 11.9 million shares of its common stock repurchased for a total cost of $988.9 million in the ﬁscal year endedMarch 31, 2024, and 12.9 million shares of its common stock repurchased for a total of $945.8 million in the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2025, approximately$1.56 billion remained available for repurchases under the program. Shares repurchased are recorded as treasury shares and are used to fund share issuance requirements under theCompany's equity incentive plans. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had approximately 39.3 million treasury shares.
Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock
In March 2025, the Company issued 29.7 million Depositary Shares, representing approximately 1.5 million shares of its Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock hasa $1,000.00 per share liquidation preference and a $0.001 per share par value. As a result of the transaction, the Company received cash proceeds of $1.45 billion, net ofunderwriting fees and other issuance costs.
Dividends are cumulative at an annual rate of 7.50% on the liquidation preference of $1,000.00 per share of Series A Preferred Stock and may be paid in cash, shares of theCompany's common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. Dividends that are declared will be payable on the 15th of March, June, September and Decemberto holders of record on the 1st of each month of the relevant dividend payment date. Dividends are recorded as a reduction to retained earnings and are reﬂected in accruedliabilities within the consolidated balance sheets until paid.
Unless earlier converted, each share of Series A Preferred Stock will automatically convert on March 15, 2028, into between 16.0060 shares and 19.6080 shares of theCompany's common stock, depending on the applicable market value of the common stock and subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments described in the certiﬁcate ofdesignations governing the Series A Preferred Stock (Certiﬁcate of Designations). The applicable market value of the Company's common stock will be determined based on theaverage volume-weighted average price per share of the common stock over the 20 consecutive trading day period beginning on, and including, the 21st scheduled trading dayimmediately prior to March 15, 2028.
If a fundamental change, as deﬁned in the Certiﬁcate of Designations, occurs on or prior to March 15, 2028, then holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled toconvert all or any portion of their shares into shares of the Company's common stock at the fundamental change conversion rate, as deﬁned in the Certiﬁcate of Designations, for aspeciﬁed period of time and also to receive an amount to compensate such holders for unpaid accumulated dividends and any remaining future scheduled dividend payments. Otherthan during a fundamental change conversion period, at any time prior to March 15, 2028, holders of Series A Preferred Stock may elect to convert all or any portion of their sharesat a conversion rate of 16.0060 shares of common stock per share of Series A Preferred Stock, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments as described in the Certiﬁcate ofDesignations.
In connection with the issuance of the 29.7 million Depositary Shares, representing approximately 1.5 million shares of its Series A Preferred Stock, the Company entered intocapped call option transactions with several ﬁnancial institutions at a cost of $55.1 million. Upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Company may exercise the cappedcall options subject to a cap price of $71.40 per share, subject to certain adjustments under the terms of the capped call options, which are generally expected to reduce thepotential dilution to the Company's common stock upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or oﬀset any cash payments the Company is required to make. As thesetransactions meet certain accounting criteria, the capped call options are recorded as a reduction of stockholders' equity and are not accounted for as derivatives.
F-42
Table of Contents
Common Stock Dividends
In October 2002, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock. The Company has continued topay quarterly dividends and has increased the amount of such dividends on a regular basis. Cash dividends paid per share were $1.816, $1.682 and $1.263 during ﬁscal 2025, 2024and 2023, respectively. Total dividend payments amounted to $975.7 million, $911.5 million and $695.3 million during ﬁscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The following table presents the changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax (in millions):
Minimum Pension Liability Foreign Currency TotalBalance at March 31, 2024 $ 11.6 $ (15.1) $ (3.5)Net other comprehensive income 1.8 — 1.8 
Balance at March 31, 2025 $ 13.4 $ (15.1) $ (1.7)
Balance at March 31, 2023 $ 11.0 $ (15.1) $ (4.1)Net other comprehensive income 0.6 — 0.6 
Balance at March 31, 2024 $ 11.6 $ (15.1) $ (3.5)
F-43
Exhibit 4.2
DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT’S SECURITIESREGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Microchip Technology Incorporated (“Microchip”) has two classes of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended: commonstock, par value $0.001 per share, and depositary shares (the “Depositary Shares”) representing a 1/20th interest in a share of 7.50% Series A Mandatory Convertible PreferredStock, par value $0.001 per share.
The following summary sets forth some of the general terms and conditions relating to our securities. Because this is a summary description, it does not contain all of theinformation that may be important to you. The information is not complete and is subject to, and qualiﬁed in its entirety by, the provisions of Microchip’s amended and restatedcertiﬁcate of incorporation (the “Certiﬁcate of Incorporation”), amended and restated bylaws (“Bylaws”), the Certiﬁcate of Designations ﬁled with the Secretary of State ofDelaware on March 25, 2025 (the “Certiﬁcate of Designations”), the Deposit Agreement, dated as of March 25, 2025, among Microchip Technology Incorporated and Equiniti TrustCompany, LLC, acting as Depositary, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein (the “Deposit Agreement”), and the provisions of applicablelaw. For a more detailed description of the securities, you should read the Certiﬁcate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Certiﬁcate of Designations, and Deposit Agreement, each of whichis an exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K of which this description is an exhibit.
Description of Capital Stock
General
Our authorized capital stock consists of 905,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which:
• 900,000,000 shares are designated as common stock, par value $0.001 per share; and
• 5,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. Of which 1,485,000 shares are designated as “7.50% Series A MandatoryConvertible Preferred Stock,” par value $0.001 per share.
Pursuant to our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval except as required by the listing standards of the Nasdaq,to issue additional shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to repeal, alter or amend the Certiﬁcate of Incorporation and Bylaws or adopt newbylaws, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Bylaws and the DGCL.
Common Stock
We have one class of authorized common stock.
Dividend Rights
Subject to preferences that may be applicable to any preferred stock outstanding at the time, the holders of outstanding shares of common stock are entitled to receivedividends out of assets legally available therefor at such times and in such amounts as our board of directors from time to time may determine.
Voting Rights
Holders of common stock are also entitled to one vote for each share held on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Neither our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation nor ourBylaws provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors.
No Preemptive, Redemption or Conversion Rights
The common stock is not entitled to preemptive rights and is not subject to conversion, redemption, or sinking fund provisions.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Similar Rights
Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Microchip, the assets legally available for distribution to stockholders would be distributed ratably among the holders of thecommon stock and any participating preferred stock outstanding at that time after payment of liquidation preferences, if any, on any outstanding preferred stock and payment ofother claims of creditors.
Preferred Stock
Our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation authorizes Microchip’s board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock from time to time in series and to ﬁx or alter therights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any series of preferred stock, and the number of shares constituting any such series and the designationthereof. These rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions could include dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights, liquidation preferences, sinking fundterms and the number of shares constituting any series or the designation of such series, any or all of which may be greater than the rights of our common stock. The issuance ofpreferred stock could adversely aﬀect the voting power of holders of our common stock and the likelihood that such holders will receive dividend payments and payments uponliquidation. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the eﬀect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control or other corporate action.
Our board of directors has designated 1,485,000 shares of preferred stock as 7.50% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Mandatory Convertible PreferredStock”), which shares have the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as fully described in the Certiﬁcate of Designations.
Dividend Rights
    Our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, asapplicable. Holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, if and when declared by the board of directors, cumulative dividends at a rate per annumof 7.5% on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, payable quarterly until the conversion date in cash or common stock as determined by the board of directors. So long asany share of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared on common stock unless all accumulated and unpaiddividends on Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock have been declared and paid upon.
Voting Rights
    The holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock do not have voting rights other than as described below or as speciﬁcally required by the DGCL. Whenever dividendshave not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether consecutive or not, the holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will beentitled, at the request of at the holders of least 25% of the outstanding shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, at the next special or annual meeting of stockholders tovote for the election of a total of two additional members of the board of directors, subject to Nasdaq rules and our corporate governance guidelines. If and when all accumulateddividends have been paid in full, the foregoing voting rights and the term of oﬃce of the
-2-
preferred stock directors shall immediately terminate without further action by us, subject to the revesting of such rights in the event of subsequent non-payment.
    So long as any shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding, we will not take certain actions without consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of theoutstanding shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, including, among other things, to (i) authorize or increase the amount of any senior stock, (ii) adversely alter therights of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, or (iii) consummate a binding exchange or reclassiﬁcation of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, including in merger orconsolidation with another entity, unless such rights, preferences, and powers, taken as a whole, are no less favorable to the holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.
No Preemptive or Redemption Rights
    The Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock is not entitled to preemptive rights and is not subject to redemption or sinking fund provisions. However, we may purchaseMandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, or Depositary Shares thereof, from time to time in the open market, by tender oﬀer, exchange oﬀer, or otherwise.
Conversion Rights
    Holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock may elect to convert, in whole or in part, their shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock before the mandatoryconversion date at the minimum conversion rate as set forth in the Certiﬁcate of Designations, subject to anti-dilution adjustments and adjustment for accumulated and unpaiddividends not yet declared as of the early conversion date. We will make no payment or allowance for remaining unpaid dividends, unless such early conversion occurs after therecord date for a declared dividend.
    Additionally, holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock may elect to convert their shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock upon a fundamental change of theCompany. A fundamental change includes (i) a person or group acquiring beneﬁcial ownership of more than 50% of our common stock, (ii) the sale of substantially all our assets orrecapitalization, reclassiﬁcation, change, merger, or consolidation of our common stock into other securities or assets, provided that the holders of our common equity do notown more than 50% of the continuing or surviving corporation, (iii) stockholder approval of any plan or proposal for liquidation or dissolution, and (iv) our common stock ceasingto be listed on Nasdaq or the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted, in part or in whole, at the conversion rate set forth inthe Certiﬁcate of Designations. Additionally, each such share of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock converted, will be entitled to receive in cash or common stock, at the solediscretion of the board of directors, payment of (x) accumulated but unpaid dividends and (y) future dividend payments at a discount rate of 4.95% per annum.
    Shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert into shares of common stock at the conversion rate set forth in the Certiﬁcate of Designations after5:00 p.m. New York City time on the mandatory conversion date, which is expected to be March 15, 2028.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Similar Rights
    Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Microchip, each holder of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $1,000 pershare, plus an amount equal to accumulated and unpaid dividends. After payment of the liquidation and dividend amounts, the holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stockwill have no right or claim to any of our remaining assets. There are no provisions requiring funds be set aside for the protection of the liquidation preference of the MandatoryConvertible Preferred Stock.
Reservation of Shares
    We will at all times reserve and keep available out of the authorized and unissued common stock or shares of common stock held in treasury by us, solely for issuance uponconversion of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred
-3-
Stock, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, the maximum number of shares of common stock as shall be issuable from time to time upon the conversion of all theshares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the maximum additional conversion amount).
Description of Depositary Shares
General
Each Depositary Share represents a 1/20th interest in a share of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Subject to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, the DepositaryShares will be entitled to all powers, preferences and special rights of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, as applicable, in proportion to the fraction of a share of ourMandatory Convertible Preferred Stock those Depositary Shares represent.
Dividend Rights
Each dividend paid on a Depositary Share will be in an amount equal to 1/20th of the dividend paid on the related share of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Solong as our Depositary Shares are held of record by the nominee of The Depositary Trust Company (“DTC”), declared cash dividends in respect of our Depositary Shares will bepaid to DTC in same-day funds on each dividend payment date. DTC will credit accounts of its participants in accordance with DTC’s normal procedures. The participants will beresponsible for holding or disbursing such payments to beneﬁcial owners of our Depositary Shares in accordance with the instructions of such beneﬁcial owners. Record dates forthe payment of dividends and other matters relating to the Depositary Shares will be the same as the corresponding record dates for our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.
Voting Rights
Because each Depositary Share represents a 1/20th interest in a share of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, holders of depositary receipts will be entitled to 1/20thof a vote per share of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock under those circumstances in which holders of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a vote.
When the bank depositary receives notice of any meeting at which the holders of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, the bank depositary willmail the notice to the record holders of the Depositary Shares relating to the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Each record holder of Depositary Shares may instruct thebank depositary as to how to vote the amount of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock represented by such holder’s Depositary Shares in accordance with theseinstructions. The bank depositary will abstain from voting shares of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock to the extent it does not receive speciﬁc instructions from theholders of Depositary Shares representing our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.
With the consent of the record holders of at least a majority of the aggregate number of Depositary Shares then outstanding, the Depositary Shares and any provisions ofthe Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended, altered or supplemented by agreement between us and the bank depositary; provided that, withoutthe consent of each record holder of an outstanding Depositary Share aﬀected, no such amendment, alteration or supplement will:
• reduce the number of Depositary Shares the record holders of which must consent to an amendment, alteration or supplement of the Depositary Shares or theDeposit Agreement;
• reduce the amount payable or deliverable in respect of the Depositary Shares or extend the stated time for such payment or delivery;
• impair the right, subject to certain requirements set forth in the Deposit Agreement, of any owner of Depositary Shares to surrender any receipt evidencingsuch Depositary Shares to the
-4-
bank depositary with instructions to deliver to it the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and all money and/or other property represented thereby;
• change the currency in which payments in respect of the Depositary Shares or any receipt evidencing such Depositary Shares is made;
• impair the right of any record holder of Depositary Shares to receive payments or deliveries on its Depositary Shares on or after the due dates therefor or toinstitute suit for the enforcement of any such payment or delivery;
• make any change that materially and adversely aﬀects the conversion rights of any record holder of Depositary Shares; or
• make any change that materially and adversely aﬀects the voting rights of any record holder of Depositary Shares.
 No Preemptive or Redemption Rights
    The Depositary Shares are not entitled to preemptive rights and are not subject to redemption or sinking fund provisions. However, we may purchase Depositary Shares fromtime to time in the open market, by tender oﬀer, exchange oﬀer, or otherwise.
Conversion Rights
Because each Depositary Share represents a 1/20th interest in a share of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, a holder of Depositary Shares may elect to convertDepositary Shares only in lots of 20 Depositary Shares, either on an early conversion date at the minimum conversion rate, subject to adjustment, or during a fundamental changeconversion period at the fundamental change conversion rate, each as set forth in the Certiﬁcate of Designations.
On any conversion date for our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, each Depositary Share corresponding to the shares of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock soconverted will be entitled to receive 1/20th of the number of shares of our common stock and the amount of any cash received by the bank depositary upon conversion of eachshare of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.
After delivery of our common stock by the transfer agent to the bank depositary following conversion of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, the bank depositary willtransfer the proportional number of shares of our common stock to the holders of Depositary Shares by book-entry transfer through DTC or, if the holders’ interests are incertiﬁcated depositary receipts, by delivery of common stock certiﬁcates for such number of shares of our common stock.
No fractional shares of common stock will be issued to holders of our Depositary Shares upon conversion. In lieu of any fractional shares of common stock otherwise issuablein respect of the aggregate number of Depositary Shares of any holder that are converted, that holder will be entitled to receive an equivalent amount in cash, computed to thenearest cent.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Similar Rights
Any ﬁnal distribution in respect of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock in connection with any liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Company shall bedistributed to the record holders of the depositary receipts pursuant to the Deposit Agreement.
-5-
Withdrawal Rights
A holder of 20 Depositary Shares may withdraw the share of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock corresponding to such Depositary Shares, and any cash or otherproperty represented by such Depositary Shares. A holder who withdraws shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (and any such cash or other property) will not berequired to pay any stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes or duties relating to the issuance or delivery of such shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (and anysuch cash or other property), except that such holder will be required to pay any tax or duty that may be payable relating to any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery ofsuch shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (and any such cash or other property) in a name other than the name of such holder. Holders of shares of our MandatoryConvertible Preferred Stock will not have the right under the Deposit Agreement to deposit such shares with the bank depositary in exchange for Depositary Shares.
Charges of Bank Depositary
We will pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements. We will pay charges of the bankdepositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Except where stated otherwise, holders of depositary receipts will pay othertransfer and other taxes and governmental charges and any other charges, including a fee for the withdrawal of shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock upon surrenderof depositary receipts, as are expressly provided in the Deposit Agreement to be for their accounts.
Form and Notices
The Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will be issued in registered form to the bank depositary, and the Depositary Shares will be issued in book-entry only formthrough DTC prior to the conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. The bank depositary will forward to the holders of Depositary Shares all reports, notices andcommunications from us that are delivered to the bank depositary and that we are required to furnish to the holders of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.
Additional Securities Information
Board of Directors
Our board of directors is not classiﬁed. By duly adopted resolution, our board of directors has established that the number of directors shall be six. This number may bechanged by a duly adopted resolution of the board of directors or by a duly adopted amendment to the Certiﬁcate of Incorporation or by an amendment to the Bylaws adopted byresolution of the board of directors or by the stockholders. Directors may be removed with or without cause by the holders of the majority of the shares then entitled to vote atan election of directors. Vacancies and newly created director positions may only be ﬁlled by a majority of directors then in oﬃce, subject to certain limitations set forth in theBylaws.
Delaware Anti-Takeover Law and Charter and Bylaw Provisions
Certain provisions of Delaware law, our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation and Bylaws, which are summarized below, may have the eﬀect of delaying, deferring or discouraginganother person from acquiring control of us. They are also designed, in part, to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate ﬁrst with our board of directors.We believe that the beneﬁts of increased protection of our potential ability to negotiate with an unfriendly or unsolicited acquirer outweigh the disadvantages of discouraging aproposal to acquire us because negotiation of these proposals could result in an improvement of their terms.
-6-
Delaware Takeover Statute
We are governed by Section 203 of the DGCL, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a periodof three years after the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless:
• before that date, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholderbecoming an interested stockholder;
• upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of thevoting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction began, excluding for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding thoseshares owned by persons who are directors and also oﬃcers of which can be issued under employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have theright to determine conﬁdentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange oﬀer; or
• on or after that date, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and not bywritten consent, by the aﬃrmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder.
In general, Section 203 of the DGCL deﬁnes an interested stockholder as any entity or person who, with aﬃliates and associates owns, or within the three year periodimmediately prior to the business combination, beneﬁcially owned 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation. Section 203 of the DGCL deﬁnes businesscombination to include:
• any merger or consolidation involving the corporation and the interested stockholder;
• any sale, transfer, pledge or other disposition of 10% or more of the assets of the corporation involving the interested stockholder;
• subject to speciﬁed exceptions, any transaction that results in the issuance or transfer by the corporation of any stock of the corporation to the interestedstockholder;
• any transaction involving the corporation that increases the proportionate share of the stock of any class or series of the corporation beneﬁcially owned by theinterested stockholder; or
• the receipt by the interested stockholder of the beneﬁt of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other ﬁnancial beneﬁts provided by or through thecorporation.
Advance Notice Provisions
Our Bylaws establish advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals and nominations of candidates for election as directors other than nominations made by or at thedirection of the board of directors or a committee of the board of directors.
Proxy Access Nominations
Under our Bylaws, a stockholder (or a group of up to 20 stockholders) who has held at least 3% of our outstanding stock continuously for at least three years, may nominateand have us include in our proxy materials (i) one director nominee if the number of directors to be elected at an annual meeting is seven or less, and (ii) if the number ofdirectors to be elected at an annual meeting is greater than seven, director nominees constituting
-7-
up to the greater of 20% of the board of directors or two directors, provided in each case that the requirements set forth in our Bylaws are satisﬁed.
Special Meeting Requirements
Our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide that special meetings of stockholders may only be called by our board of directors or the chairman of the board or by oneor more stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ﬁfty percent (50%) of the entire capital stock of the corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote.
Authorized but Unissued Shares
Authorized but unissued shares of our common stock and preferred stock are available for future issuances without stockholder approval, excepting the applicable listing andregulatory standards, and could be utilized for a variety of corporate purposes, including future oﬀerings to raise additional capital, acquisitions and employee beneﬁt plans. Theexistence of authorized but unissued and unreserved common stock and preferred stock could render more diﬃcult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of Microchip bymeans of a proxy contest, tender oﬀer, merger, or otherwise.
Action by Stockholder Consent
Our Bylaws provide that our stockholders may take action by written consent without a meeting.
Exclusive Forum
Unless we provide written consent to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the exclusive forumfor any derivative action, action asserting breach of ﬁduciary duty, claims pursuant to Delaware corporate law, action related to the Certiﬁcate of Incorporation, Bylaws, or internalaﬀairs doctrine, unless an indispensable party is not subject nor has consented to the jurisdiction. Unless we provide written consent to an alternative forum, the federal districtcourts of the United States of America shall be the sole and exclusive jurisdiction for the resolution of claims arising under the Securities Act. Although we believe these provisionsbeneﬁt us by providing increased consistency in the application of law for the speciﬁed types of actions and proceedings, the provisions may have the eﬀect of discouraginglawsuits against us or our directors and oﬃcers. We also note that stockholders cannot waive compliance (or consent to noncompliance) with the federal securities laws and therules and regulations thereunder.
Limitation of Liability and Indemniﬁcation of Oﬃcers and Directors
Our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation contains provisions that limit the liability of our directors for monetary damages to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL. Consequently,our directors are not personally liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for any breach of ﬁduciary duties as directors, except liability for the following:
• any breach of their duty of loyalty to the Company or our stockholders;
• any act or omission not in good faith or which involves intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;
• unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions as provided in Section 174 of the DGCL; or
• any transaction from which they derived an improper personal beneﬁt.
-8-
Any amendment to, or repeal of, these provisions will not eliminate or reduce the eﬀect of these provisions in respect of any act, omission or claim that occurred or aroseprior to that amendment or repeal. If the DGCL is amended to provide for further limitations on the personal liability of directors of corporations, then the personal liability of ourdirectors will be further limited to the greatest extent permitted by the DGCL.
In addition, our Bylaws provide that we may indemnify, to the maximum extent permitted by the DGCL, any employee or agent of the Company against expenses,judgements, ﬁnes, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding arising by reason of the fact such person is or was anagent of the Company.
Further, we have entered into indemniﬁcation agreements with each of our directors and executive oﬃcers that may be broader than the speciﬁc indemniﬁcation provisionscontained in the DGCL. These indemniﬁcation agreements require us, among other things, to indemnify our directors and executive oﬃcers against liabilities that may arise byreason of their status or service. These indemniﬁcation agreements also require us to advance all expenses actually and reasonably incurred and paid by the directors andexecutive oﬃcers in investigating or defending any such action, suit or proceeding. We believe that these agreements are necessary to attract and retain qualiﬁed individuals toserve as directors and executive oﬃcers.
The limitation of liability and indemniﬁcation provisions that are included in our Certiﬁcate of Incorporation, Bylaws and in indemniﬁcation agreements that we have enteredinto with our directors and executive oﬃcers may discourage stockholders from bringing a lawsuit against our directors and executive oﬃcers for breach of their ﬁduciary duties.They may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and executive oﬃcers, even though an action, if successful, might beneﬁt us and otherstockholders. Further, a stockholder’s investment may be adversely aﬀected to the extent that we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against directors and executiveoﬃcers as required by these indemniﬁcation provisions.
We have obtained insurance policies under which, subject to the limitations of the policies, coverage is provided to our directors and executive oﬃcers against loss arisingfrom claims made by reason of breach of ﬁduciary duty or other wrongful acts as a director or executive oﬃcer, including claims relating to public securities matters, and to uswith respect to payments that may be made by us to these directors and executive oﬃcers pursuant to our indemniﬁcation obligations or otherwise as a matter of law.
Insofar as indemniﬁcation for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to directors, oﬃcers or persons controlling our company pursuant to the foregoingprovisions, we have been informed that, in the opinion of the SEC, such indemniﬁcation is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is therefore unenforceable.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
The transfer agent and registrar for our common stock, Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, and Depositary Shares is Equiniti Trust Company, LLC. The address of thetransfer agent and registrar is 1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101, Mendota Heights MN 55120-4100.
Listing
Our common stock is listed on Nasdaq under the symbol “MCHP”.
Our Depositary Shares are listed on Nasdaq under the symbol “MCHPP”.
-9-
Exhibit 10.29Grant # ###
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED2004 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLANNOTICE OF GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (PERFORMANCE)
Unless otherwise deﬁned herein, the terms deﬁned in the Microchip Technology Incorporated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) shall have the same deﬁnedmeanings in this Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Performance) (the “Grant Notice”).
Grantee: [NAME]
Grantee has been granted an award of performance-based Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) subject to and in accordance with the express terms and conditions of the Grant Notice(including Exhibit A), the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, including the appendix for Grantee’s country, if any (the “Appendix” and together with the Restricted StockUnit Agreement, the “Agreement”). The Plan and Agreement are incorporated herein in their entirety. Each RSU is equivalent to the right to receive one share of Common Stock ofthe Company (“Share”) for purposes of determining the number of Shares subject to this Award. No Shares will be issued until the vesting conditions of the Award describedbelow are satisﬁed and the restrictions lapse, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the Agreement. This Award does not entitle Grantee to any stockholderrights with respect to the underlying Shares until the vesting conditions of the Award described below are satisﬁed, the restrictions lapse and Shares are issued to him/her.Additional terms of this Award are as follows:
Date of Grant: [DATE]
Target Number of Restricted Stock Units: [NUMBER]
Vesting Schedule: [VESTING SCHEDULE] contingent on Performance Goals.
Subject to Section 19 of the Plan, the RSUs shall vest on the Determination Date (the “Vesting Date”) to the extent the RSUs have become Achieved RSUs with respect tothe achievement of the performance-based vesting conditions set forth on Exhibit A. All vesting is contingent upon Grantee remaining a Service Provider through theVesting Date.
Measurement Period: eight (8) consecutive ﬁscal quarter period beginning with the ﬁrst day of the quarter in which the grant is approved.
Performance Goals: See Exhibit A attached.
Termination Period. This Award automatically terminates and Grantee’s rights are forfeited with respect to all RSUs granted hereunder on the date Grantee ceases to be a ServiceProvider (if such date precedes the Vesting Date), or in the event that Grantee has not accepted this Grant in accordance with Company procedures 31 days or more prior to theDetermination Date. A portion of the Award may terminate sooner as set forth in Exhibit A, as a result of it not being achieved. In no event shall this Award vest later than theVesting Schedule outlined above.
Forfeiture Events. This Award (or any portion thereof) and any Shares issued in settlement of this Award, as applicable, are subject to recoupment under any clawback policythat the Company is required to adopt pursuant to the listing standards of any national securities exchange or association on which the Company's securities are listed or as isotherwise required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or other applicable laws. In addition, to the extent required by Section 304 of theSarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Grantee shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of this Award if earned or accrued under the Plan during the 12-month period following the ﬁrst public issuance or ﬁling with the Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever ﬁrst occurred) of the ﬁnancial document embodying suchﬁnancial reporting requirement.
Binding Agreements. Grantee shall be deemed to have accepted this Award and the terms set forth in this Grant Notice, the Agreement, and the Plan (the “Equity Documents”)until and unless the Company has received written notice via email to MicrochipStockDepartment@Microchip.com from Grantee of Grantee’s non-acceptance of this Award nolater than the 30  calendar day prior to the ﬁrst date on which an RSU is scheduled to vest (the “Notice of Non-Acceptance”), which non-th
acceptance shall be irrevocable. The Equity Documents constitute Grantee’s entire agreement with respect to this Award and Grantee and the Award shall be bound by the termstherein unless and until the Company receives Grantee’s Notice of Non- Acceptance. The Administrator’s decisions and interpretations with respect to any questions relating tothe Equity Documents and/or this Award shall be binding, conclusive and ﬁnal. This Award may be modiﬁed by the Company, but in accordance with Section 21(c) of the Plan, itmay not be modiﬁed adversely to Grantee’s interest except by means of a writing signed by the Company and Grantee. The Company will administer the Plan from the UnitedStates of America. The internal laws of the State of Arizona, United States of America, but not its choice of law principles, will govern this Award.
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
By:
Steve Sanghi, President and CEO
    
2
EXHIBIT A
PERFORMANCE MATRIX
The following terms shall apply to the Award of Restricted Stock Units granted to the Grantee identiﬁed in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Performance)included as part of the Agreement to which this Performance Matrix is attached. Unless otherwise deﬁned herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Planor the Agreement, as applicable.
Operating Margin Vesting Multiple*
30% 200%
29% 180%
28% 160%
27% 140%
26% 120%
25% 100%
24% 80%
23% 60%
22% 40%
21% 20%
20% 0%
* For performance falling between two identiﬁed “bands” in the ﬁrst column of the table above, the actual vesting multiple for determining the number of RSUs vestingon the applicable Vesting Date will be calculated by linear interpolation between (a) the two identiﬁed bands and (b) the two vesting multiples set forth in the second column thatcorrespond to the two identiﬁed Operating Margin bands.
Deﬁnitions
“GAAP” means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Operating Income” means as to the Measurement Period, the Company’s non-GAAP operating income, which is determined consistent with how non-GAAP operating income isreported in the Company’s press release for the applicable ﬁscal quarter.
“Operating Margin” means as to the Measurement Period, the Company’s Non-GAAP Operating Income divided by Net Sales (rounded to the second decimal).
“Net Sales” means as to the Measurement Period, the Company’s GAAP net sales, which is determined consistent with how GAAP net sales is reported in the Company’s pressrelease for the applicable ﬁscal quarter.
“SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Award Determination and Payout
Except as provided under the “Change of Control” section below, following the end of each Measurement Period, the Administrator will certify whether and to whatextent the performance metric has been achieved for the Measurement Period (the date of such certiﬁcation, the “Determination Date”).
The actual number of RSUs that will vest under the Agreement, if any, upon achievement of the performance metric will be rounded down to the nearest wholenumber so as to avoid fractional shares (such portion, the “Achieved RSUs”). Any RSUs that do not become Achieved RSUs will be immediately forfeited and returned to the Planshare reserve.
Change of Control
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change of Control occurs before the last day of the Measurement Period and Grantee remains a Service Provider throughimmediately prior to such Change of Control, the number of Restricted Stock
3
Units that will become Achieved RSUs will equal the greater of: (i) the Target Number of Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) the number of Restricted Stock Units determined bycalculating the Vesting Multiple associated with the Company Operating Margin for an adjusted Measurement Period (the “Adjusted Measurement Period”) ending on the last dayof the most recent ﬁscal quarter ending prior to the Change of Control, rounded down to the nearest whole number so as to avoid fractional shares (the “Change of ControlAchieved RSUs”).
The Change of Control Achieved RSUs will vest immediately prior to the Change of Control, subject to Grantee continuing to be a Service Provider through such date.
All determinations regarding the Operating Margin of the Company, and any adjusted values in the event of a Change of Control, will be made by the CompensationCommittee of the Company’s Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, and all such determinations will be ﬁnal and binding on all parties.
4
Exhibit 10.30Grant # ###
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED2004 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLANNOTICE OF GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (PERFORMANCE)
Unless otherwise deﬁned herein, the terms deﬁned in the Microchip Technology Incorporated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) shall have the same deﬁnedmeanings in this Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Performance) (the “Grant Notice”).
    Grantee: [NAME]
Grantee has been granted an award of performance-based Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) subject to and in accordance with the express terms and conditions of the Grant Notice(including Exhibit A), the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, including the appendix for Grantee’s country, if any (the “Appendix” and together with the Restricted StockUnit Agreement, the “Agreement”). The Plan and Agreement are incorporated herein in their entirety. Each RSU is equivalent to the right to receive one share of Common Stock ofthe Company (“Share”) for purposes of determining the number of Shares subject to this Award. No Shares will be issued until the vesting conditions of the Award describedbelow are satisﬁed and the restrictions lapse, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the Agreement. This Award does not entitle Grantee to any stockholderrights with respect to the underlying Shares until the vesting conditions of the Award described below are satisﬁed, the restrictions lapse and Shares are issued to him/her.Additional terms of this Award are as follows:
Date of Grant: [DATE]
Target Number of Restricted Stock Units: [NUMBER]
Vesting Schedule: [VESTING SCHEDULE], contingent on Performance Goals.
Subject to Section 19 of the Plan, the RSUs shall vest on the Determination Date (the “Vesting Date”) to the extent the RSUs have become Achieved RSUs with respect tothe achievement of the performance-based vesting conditions set forth on Exhibit A. All vesting is contingent upon Grantee remaining a Service Provider through theVesting Date.
Measurement Period: twelve (12) consecutive ﬁscal quarter period beginning with the ﬁrst day of the quarter in which the grant is approved.
Performance Goals: See Exhibit A attached.
Termination Period. This Award automatically terminates and Grantee’s rights are forfeited with respect to all RSUs granted hereunder on the date Grantee ceases to be a ServiceProvider (if such date precedes the Vesting Date), or in the event that Grantee has not accepted this Grant in accordance with Company procedures 31 days or more prior to theDetermination Date. A portion of the Award may terminate sooner as set forth in Exhibit A, as a result of it not being achieved. In no event shall this Award vest later than theVesting Schedule outlined above.
Forfeiture Events. This Award (or any portion thereof) and any Shares issued in settlement of this Award, as applicable, are subject to recoupment under any clawback policy thatthe Company is required to adopt pursuant to the listing standards of any national securities exchange or association on which the Company's securities are listed or as isotherwise required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or other applicable laws. In addition, to the extent required by Section 304 of theSarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Grantee shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of this Award if earned or accrued under the Plan during the 12-month period following the ﬁrst public issuance or ﬁling with the Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever ﬁrst occurred) of the ﬁnancial document embodying suchﬁnancial reporting requirement.
Binding Agreements. Grantee shall be deemed to have accepted this Award and the terms set forth in this Grant Notice, the Agreement, and the Plan (the “Equity Documents”)until and unless the Company has received written notice via email to MicrochipStockDepartment@Microchip.com from Grantee of Grantee’s non-acceptance of this Award nolater than the
30  calendar day prior to the ﬁrst date on which an RSU is scheduled to vest (the “Notice of Non-Acceptance”), which non-acceptance shall be irrevocable. The Equity Documentsconstitute Grantee’s entire agreement with respect to this Award and Grantee and the Award shall be bound by the terms therein unless and until the Company receives Grantee’sNotice of Non-Acceptance. The Administrator’s decisions and interpretations with respect to any questions relating to the Equity Documents and/or this Award shall be binding,conclusive and ﬁnal. This Award may be modiﬁed by the Company, but in accordance with Section 21(c) of the Plan, it may not be modiﬁed adversely to Grantee’s interest exceptby means of a writing signed by the Company and Grantee. The Company will administer the Plan from the United States of America. The internal laws of the State of Arizona,United States of America, but not its choice of law principles, will govern this Award.
    
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
By:
Steve Sanghi, President and CEO
th
2
EXHIBIT A
PERFORMANCE MATRIX
The following terms shall apply to the Award of Restricted Stock Units granted to the Grantee identiﬁed in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Performance)included as part of the Agreement to which this Performance Matrix is attached. Unless otherwise deﬁned herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Planor the Agreement, as applicable.
Operating Margin Vesting Multiple*
30% 200%
29% 180%
28% 160%
27% 140%
26% 120%
25% 100%
24% 80%
23% 60%
22% 40%
21% 20%
20% 0%
* For performance falling between two identiﬁed “bands” in the ﬁrst column of the table above, the actual vesting multiple for determining the number of RSUs vestingon the applicable Vesting Date will be calculated by linear interpolation between (a) the two identiﬁed bands and (b) the two vesting multiples set forth in the second column thatcorrespond to the two identiﬁed Operating Margin bands.
Deﬁnitions
“GAAP” means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Operating Income” means as to the Measurement Period, the Company’s non-GAAP operating income, which is determined consistent with how non-GAAP operating income isreported in the Company’s press release for the applicable ﬁscal quarter.
“Operating Margin” means as to the Measurement Period, the Company’s Non-GAAP Operating Income divided by Net Sales (rounded to the second decimal).
“Net Sales” means as to the Measurement Period, the Company’s GAAP net sales, which is determined consistent with how GAAP net sales is reported in the Company’s pressrelease for the applicable ﬁscal quarter.
“SEC” means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Award Determination and Payout
Except as provided under the “Change of Control” section below, following the end of each Measurement Period, the Administrator will certify whether and to whatextent the performance metric has been achieved for the Measurement Period (the date of such certiﬁcation, the “Determination Date”).
The actual number of RSUs that will vest under the Agreement, if any, upon achievement of the performance metric will be rounded down to the nearest whole numberso as to avoid fractional shares (such portion, the “Achieved RSUs”). Any RSUs that do not become Achieved RSUs will be immediately forfeited and returned to the Plan sharereserve.
Change of Control
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change of Control occurs before the last day of the Measurement Period and Grantee remains a Service Provider throughimmediately prior to such Change of Control, the number of Restricted Stock
3
Units that will become Achieved RSUs will equal the greater of: (i) the Target Number of Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) the number of Restricted Stock Units determined bycalculating the Vesting Multiple associated with the Company Operating Margin for an adjusted Measurement Period (the “Adjusted Measurement Period”) ending on the last dayof the most recent ﬁscal quarter ending prior to the Change of Control, rounded down to the nearest whole number so as to avoid fractional shares (the “Change of ControlAchieved RSUs”).
The Change of Control Achieved RSUs will vest immediately prior to the Change of Control, subject to Grantee continuing to be a Service Provider through such date.    All determinations regarding the Operating Margin of the Company, and any adjusted values in the event of a Change of Control, will be made by the Compensation Committeeof the Company’s Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, and all such determinations will be ﬁnal and binding on all parties.
4
Exhibit 21.1
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATEDLIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES
Entity Name Jurisdiction of Incorporation
Atmel U.K. Holdings Limited United Kingdom
MCHP Israel Holdings 2 Ltd Israel
Microchip Communications, LLC USA (Delaware)
Microchip Frequency Technology GmbH Germany
Microchip Limited United Kingdom
Microchip MCHP Technology Israel Ltd Israel
Microchip Storage Solutions LLC USA (Delaware)
Microchip Technology (India) Private Limited India
Microchip Technology (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Thailand
Microchip Technology (UK) Holdings Ltd United Kingdom
Microchip Technology Caldicot Limited United Kingdom
Microchip Technology Ireland Limited Ireland
Microchip Technology LLC USA (Delaware)
Microchip Technology Malta Limited Malta
Microchip Technology Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Peoples Republic of China
Microsemi Corp. - High Performance Timing USA (Delaware)
Microsemi Corp. – Holding Cayman Islands
Microsemi Corp. – Holding 2 Cayman Islands
Microsemi Corp. - Massachusetts USA (Delaware)
Microsemi Corporation USA (Delaware)
Microsemi Israel, Ltd. Israel
Microsemi Semiconductor ULC Canada (British Columbia)
Microsemi SoC Corp. USA (California)
Microsemi Solutions Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia
Microsemi Solutions UK Limited United Kingdom
Microsemi Storage Solutions Ltd. Canada (British Columbia)
Silicon Storage Technology Inc. USA (California)
Exhibit 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:
(1) Form S-8 No. 33-59686,
(2) Form S-8 No. 33-80072,(3) Form S-8 No. 33-81690,(4) Form S-8 No. 33-83196,
(5) Form S-8 No. 333-00872,(6) Form S-8 No. 333-40791,(7) Form S-8 No. 333-93571,
(8) Form S-8 No. 333-51322,(9) Form S-8 No. 333-73506,(10) Form S-8 No. 333-99655,
(11) Form S-8 No. 333-103764,(12) Form S-8 No. 333-109486,(13) Form S-8 No. 333-119939,
(14) Form S-8 No. 333-140773,(15) Form S-8 No. 333-149460,(16) Form S-8 No. 333-177889,
(17) Form S-8 No. 333-192273,(18) Form S-8 No. 333-206210,(19) Form S-8 No. 333-213062,
(20) Form S-8 No. 333-221420,(21) Form S-8 No. 333-225257,(22) Form S-8 No. 333-236250,
(23) Form S-8 No. 333-262497,
(24) Form S-8 No. 333-273657,(25) Form S-3ASR No. 333-277512,(26) Form S-8 No. 333-283002,
(27) Form S-3ASR No. 333-285913, and(28) Form S-3ASR No. 333-287160
of our reports dated May 22, 2025 with respect to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Microchip Technology Incorporated, and the eﬀectiveness of internal control overﬁnancial reporting of Microchip Technology Incorporated, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Microchip Technology Incorporated for the year ended March 31, 2025.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Phoenix, ArizonaMay 22, 2025
Exhibit 31.1
CERTIFICATION
I, Steve Sanghi, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this Form 10-K of Microchip Technology Incorporated;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in lightof the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the ﬁnancial statements, and other ﬁnancial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the ﬁnancial condition, resultsof operations and cash ﬂows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant's other certifying oﬃcer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as deﬁned in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over ﬁnancial reporting (as deﬁned in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that materialinformation relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period inwhich this report is being prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, or caused such internal control over ﬁnancial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to providereasonable assurance regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generallyaccepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the eﬀectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the eﬀectiveness of thedisclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over ﬁnancial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent ﬁscal quarter (theregistrant's fourth ﬁscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially aﬀected, or is reasonably likely to materially aﬀect, the registrant's internalcontrol over ﬁnancial reporting; and
5. The registrant's other certifying oﬃcer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, to the registrant's auditors andthe audit committee of the registrant's Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All signiﬁcant deﬁciencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting which are reasonably likely to adverselyaﬀect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report ﬁnancial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a signiﬁcant role in the registrant's internal control over ﬁnancialreporting.
May 22, 2025  /s/ Steve Sanghi                                                   Steve SanghiChief Executive Oﬃcer and President(Principal Executive Oﬃcer)
Exhibit 31.2
CERTIFICATION
I, J. Eric Bjornholt, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this Form 10-K of Microchip Technology Incorporated;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in lightof the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the ﬁnancial statements, and other ﬁnancial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the ﬁnancial condition, resultsof operations and cash ﬂows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant's other certifying oﬃcer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as deﬁned in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over ﬁnancial reporting (as deﬁned in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that materialinformation relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period inwhich this report is being prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, or caused such internal control over ﬁnancial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to providereasonable assurance regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generallyaccepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the eﬀectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the eﬀectiveness of thedisclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over ﬁnancial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent ﬁscal quarter (theregistrant's fourth ﬁscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially aﬀected, or is reasonably likely to materially aﬀect, the registrant's internalcontrol over ﬁnancial reporting; and
5. The registrant's other certifying oﬃcer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, to the registrant's auditors andthe audit committee of the registrant's Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All signiﬁcant deﬁciencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting which are reasonably likely to adverselyaﬀect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report ﬁnancial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a signiﬁcant role in the registrant's internal control over ﬁnancialreporting.
May 22, 2025 /s/ J. Eric Bjornholt                                                         J. Eric BjornholtSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Exhibit 32
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERPURSUANT TO18 U.S.C.  SECTION 1350,AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TOSECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
I, Steve Sanghi, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Microchip TechnologyIncorporated on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2025 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and thatinformation contained in such Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial condition and results of operations of Microchip Technology Incorporated.
By:  /s/ Steve Sanghi                                                   Name: Steve Sanghi
Title: Chief Executive Oﬃcer and President(Principal Executive Oﬃcer)Date: May 22, 2025
I, J. Eric Bjornholt, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of MicrochipTechnology Incorporated on Form 10-K for the period ended March 31, 2025 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934and that information contained in such Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial condition and results of operations of Microchip Technology Incorporated.
By: /s/ J. Eric Bjornholt                                                   
Name: J. Eric BjornholtTitle: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OﬃcerDate: May 22, 2025
